The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Wilderness Trail, by Henry
Bedford-Jones

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Wilderness Trail

Author: Henry Bedford-Jones

Release Date: February 16, 2022 [eBook #67418]

Language: English

Produced by: Al Haines

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WILDERNESS TRAIL ***







  The Wilderness Trail

  By H. BEDFORD-JONES


  Author of
  "Splendour of the Gods," "The Kasbah Gate," etc.


  London: HURST & BLACKETT, LTD.
  PATERNOSTER HOUSE, E.C.




THE WILDERNESS TRAIL



CHAPTER I

The year 1810 was more commonly known, at least in the Kentucky
wilderness, as the thirty-fourth year of the Independence of the
United States.  Backwoods folk are simple folk, proud of what they
and their fathers have done.

Although split with vexatious questions of Federal or Democrat, rent
asunder by argument over the Great Conspiracy of Aaron Burr, and
menaced always by the gathered allied hordes of Tecumthe across the
Indiana border, the settlers in and around Louisville forgot all
these things in the one supreme fact that this was the thirty-fourth
year of the United States.

Law had come into the country, to the bitterness of many.
Land-titles and sorry scoundrels had in combination ousted many a
less famous man than Colonel Daniel Boone from his holdings.  Whisky
and lawless border-life, to say nothing of the more lawless
river-ways, had ruined more than one good man both in morals and
reputation.  Some said the western country had gone to the dogs;
others said that the dogs had all come to the western country.  Both
sayings were true, in a sense.

So, then, in this thirty-fourth year of the United States, an old man
stood on the Beargrass Creek Road, just out of Louisville, and swore
volubly.  A horseman had spattered him with mud.  To his right was a
fringe of trees, to his left the mudhole, and just beyond him was a
bend in the road.

The old man was only five feet ten, but was thewed like a giant.  As
he wiped the mud from his cheek and glared at the returning horseman,
he displayed a strong, keen-eyed face which sat well above powerful
shoulders and barrel-like chest.

"Consarn the lawyers!" he cried angrily.  "If I had my way, I'd hang
every cussed lawyer in Kaintuck!  Hanging's too good for 'em.
Consarn 'em, I'd----"

The horseman had reined in at the bend and was now back beside the
old man.  He was a large athletic man, dressed in fine blue
broadcloth, with pudding cravat and ear-high coat collar.  He leaned
over in his saddle with a smile.

"Sir, your pardon!  The offence was unintentional.  I take it that
you have a grudge against lawyers, eh?"

"Huh!"  The other grunted angrily, yet with none of the sputtering
fury of old age.  His words seemed calculated, in fact.  "Huh!
Hain't lawyers robbed me right and left an' driv me out o' Kaintuck?
You're like all of 'em, consarn ye, slick and smooth!  I ain't lived
seventy-six year 'thout bein' able to read a man's face.  Ye
black-hearted Wyandot, why didn't ye turn out o' the way--huh?"

At these final words the horseman went white to the lips.  He was
handsome, dark of hair and eye, with thin lips, virile features, and
powerful hands.  Despite the careful attire and courtly air, however,
there was an indescribably cruel curve to his thin lips and nostrils,
an arrogance in his bearing, which seemed rather out of place in
democratic Kentucky.

"Sir, I asked your pardon," he said in a deep voice, twitching his
riding-whip against his boot.  "In deference to your age I pass over
your words----"

"Cuss yer impudence!" broke out the old man hotly, a flame leaping
out in his blue eyes.  "You're one o' them Louisville vultures, huh?
I kin tell.  Pass over my words, do ye?  Well, ye git down out'n that
saddle an' I'll give ye somethin' better to pass over.  Hump down,
consarn ye--I'll pay out one debt more on yer carcass afore I go back
to Missoury!"

The old man did not look his seventy-six years.  The wrathful
earnestness of his bearing bespoke his entire willingness to chastise
the lawyer, while there was a dangerous vitality in his high-browed
face.  The other gazed down steadily, contempt sitting in his proud
dark eyes.

"I have no quarrel with you, sir," he returned slowly.  "Yet if you
would seek redress through the courts, you may seek me at Louisville,
where I am well known.  My name, sir, is Charles Duval, and I regret
that my apology did not----"

His stately courtesy and slight trace of contempt served only to
infuriate the old man the more.  With one swift forward stride, he
gripped the bridle of the horse.

"Git down out'n that saddle," he broke in.  "I aim to git a feel o'
yer hide right here an' now, consarn ye!  I don't want no courts."

"Hands off, you fool!" whipped out Duval, deadly pale.  He made as if
to raise his riding-crop, put paused and twisted in the saddle at
sound of a cheery voice from the bend of the road just behind him.
It was a vibrant joyous voice, and the lilt of song rose clearly on
the afternoon air.

  Oh, I fit with Gen'ral Washington an' I'd like to fight some more,
  An' I'm going to join with Gen'ral Clark when next we go to war!
  I'll tote my Kaintuck rifle, and I'll raise the Kaintuck boys,
  And we'll sculp the bloody Britishers----


The singer jogged around the bend of trees and came to an abrupt halt
as he sighted the two.  His horse was good, his deerhide dress bad,
his rifle brass-mounted, and his head bare.  Glinting brown hair, a
brown, clean-shaven face of youth and strong lines, and clear brown
eyes formed a symphony of woods-colouring.

"Well, well!"  His eyes twinkled slightly as he surveyed the scene
before him.  "Is this a highway robbery, friends?  Strength assailed
by old age--what an allegory we find here!  And why not make youth
the mediator, may I ask?"

His appearance seemed to quiet the rage of the old man, who released
the horse's bridle and stepped back calmly.  The newcomer met the
steady look of Duval, but the twinkle passed from the brown eyes.

"Well?" he snapped suddenly.  "Are you dumb, sir?  I believe you
intended to strike this old man with your whip?"

"Sir, you are at liberty to formulate your own beliefs," returned
Duval coldly.  "Kindly get out of my path at once."

"Ah, this is more like it!" exclaimed the stranger quickly.  "And if
I refuse?"

A tide of passion flooded over Duval's swarthy face.  He pushed his
horse toward the new-comer, lifting his whip.  There was a slight,
almost negligent motion, and he found himself staring into the mouth
of the long rifle which had reposed on the brown man's saddle-bow.

"Well, try it," smiled the stranger, but with a glint in his brown
eyes as they rested on Duval's furious face.  "I fancy my powder is
still a bit too good for wasting, unless you force me.  If you wish
to pass, sir--take the mud."

For a moment Duval was choked by his rage.  While plainly no coward,
he was checked both at sight of the ready trigger-finger and the cold
purpose in the brown eyes.  The old man, watching keenly, stooped and
picked up his fallen cap of coonskin.

"Devil take you," cried Duval hoarsely, the intensity of his passion
clenching all his face into wild fury.  "Sir, I--I----"

Whatever he might have said was stopped by a thud of hoofs.  Once
more the bend in the quiet Beargrass Creek Road was invaded at a
critical moment, and this time by a girl who rode from the direction
whence Duval had come.  And as before, the arrival broke off
threatening hostilities.

She was a beautiful girl enough, with her fresh firm face and clear
grey eyes, and the red-gold hair falling over her shoulders.  Her
steed was bony and her gown was homespun, but Duval swung his horse
around with a graceful bow and swept his hat to his stirrup as she
drew rein.

"May I ride back to town with you, Madam Trigg?" he asked quietly,
giving no hint of the storm which a moment before had convulsed him.
"It seems there are strangers and odd characters about, and it may
well----"

He was interrupted by a cry of surprise.  The girl slipped from her
saddle as the old man stepped forward, and with a swift hug and a
laugh of rippling delight she flung her arms about his neck.

"You!" she cried.  "Why, where on earth did you come from?"

"Come from town," said the old man jerkily.  He stared into her
excited eyes with a flush of pleasure on his rugged old face, and
seemed lost to all around.  "Come in with some beaver, Kitty.  Paid
the ol' debts, every last man, thank God!  Clean's a whistle now.
Goin' out to Dick Taylor's, comin' to see you-all, then goin' back
home.  Be in town to-morrow sure."

His abrupt awkward speech drew another hug and a kiss from the girl,
who then turned to her horse and scrambled to the saddle.

"Be sure you come, then!" she cried merrily, and looked at Duval: "I
thank you for the courtesy, sir, and avail myself of it right
gladly----"

She broke off at sight of the brown-eyed stranger, who had not moved.
Duval touched his spurs and brought his horse beside hers.

"Out of the way," he commanded sharply.  "This lady wishes to pass."

The leather-clad stranger smiled a little.

"And so she shall, friend Duval," he drawled easily.  "I told you
once that you might take the mud."

"Confound you, sir--would you dare shoot me?" broke in Duval
furiously.  "I dare you to do it, sir!"

"Well, that's a dare easily settled!" laughed the other, but his eyes
remained very steady.  Pressing his steed with his knee, he moved
aside and left the inner edge of the road clear.  "The lady is not
hindered.  As for you, if you doubt either my ability or my will, why
not test the matter?"

Duval noted the crooked trigger-finger, muttered an impatient word,
then turned and splashed through the muddy water.  The girl went on,
still gazing at the stranger.  As he drew upon the dry road and
waited, Duval turned.

"Take care of yourself!" he cried, his face livid.

"That is my business in life, thanks," returned the stranger,
lightly, and so he found himself alone with the old man.  Carefully
uncocking his rifle, he swung down from the saddle and gripped hands
with the other.

"Well, you seem to be in no great need of help," he chuckled,
surveying the huge chest of the grey-haired man.  "What's the matter,
anyway?  Did you have a fuss with his excellency?"

"Kind of that way," grinned the old man, to whom speech now seemed to
come slowly.  "Muddied me, the cussed law-shark!  All alike, consarn
'em."

"Well, now he's gone, can you tell me where Colonel Dick Taylor
lives?"

"Goin' there," grunted the other, jerking a thumb over his shoulder.
His keen blue eyes searched the younger face shrewdly.  "Young man,
ye handled him right.  You're a fine fellow.  How are ye named?"

"Norton, John Norton," smiled the younger man.  "I'm a captain in the
Seventh Infantry, or was, and came up from New Orleans after
resigning.  So you're going to the Taylors, eh?  Know young Zach?  Do
you live around here?"

"Uh-huh, I know him.  Used to live here."  The old man's face
darkened as he glanced around.  "Them cussed lawyers skun me out o'
my land, consarn 'em!  Live in Missoury now.  Lots o' game there.
Come back here to pay my debts--no man can't say I ain't honest.
Them moccasins ain't Cherokee-made, are they?"

"What's your name?" asked Norton with frank interest.  He clucked to
his horse, and the steed followed them as they trudged along the
road.  The other only glanced down at the moccasins.

"Name's Boone," he grunted.  "Them moccasins, now--they sartin look
kind o' like----"

"Boone?"  Norton stopped abruptly, a puzzled wonder in his eyes.
"You're not Colonel Boone, by any chance?  Colonel Daniel Boone?"

"That's me.  About them mocc----"

"Well, by thunder!" Norton gasped, then laughed aloud as he seized
Boone's hand in a hearty clasp and looked deep into the keen blue
eyes.  "Why, Colonel, I spent two days looking you up in Missouri,
over on the Femme Osage!  Your wife said you had gone east, either to
Virginia or Tennessee.  I was mighty anxious to see you--in fact,
that's why I threw up my army commission."

"Huh!  To see me?" Boone looked at him, then jerked his head.  "Well,
come along to Dick's.  Find the wife well, did ye?  Now tell me 'bout
where ye got them moccasins----"


John Norton was lost in amazement at the manner in which he had
chanced on the one man in the country he most desired to meet.
Daniel Boone was not greatly honoured in that day.  He had been out
of the public view for twenty years and was not of the self-assertive
type; his fame seemed to be dying out with the older generation of
frontiersmen.  Driven into the South-west, he still made long, lonely
forays through the South and East, hunting and trapping and seeking
the solitude he loved.

At Femme Osage, Norton had missed him by a month.  Then the young
ex-officer had come on by flatboat to Fort Massac, and from there
overland to Louisville.  He said no more of his journey than this,
but Boone looked at the delicate yet decisive profile, the brown eyes
which could twinkle like a star or leap out hard and cold like a
sword--and nodded to himself.

"Ye knew Zach down to N'Orleens, mebbe?  He's in the Seventh, ain't
he?"

"Yes," nodded Norton.  "We were great friends, till he came North
with fever.  How is he?  All right?"

Boone chuckled.  "The cuss has got married, Norton."

"What?  He has?"  Norton whistled, then broke into a laugh.  "Someone
here?"

"No--him and me brung her over from Maryland.  Got here a month ago.
We located beaver on the way, so I went back an' got enough pelt to
pay up some ol' debts here in Louisville--consarn them lawyers!"

Norton was not altogether surprised at Zach Taylor's marriage.  He
had gained his captaincy at the time Zach joined the regiment in New
Orleans as lieutenant.  Barely had the two men become friends when
young Taylor went home on sick-leave.  This had been two years
before, and the reason for his prolonged absence was now evident.
Norton's business concerned Colonel Richard Taylor, Zach's father, no
less than it did Boone, so he had come on to Louisville after missing
the old frontiersman at Femme Osage.  Now, by a fortunate chance, he
had come upon Boone as well--a good presage, he reflected.  He was
like to have need of all the friends he could muster.

The two tramped along between the cottonwoods, and in a few moments
sighted the clustering log and frame buildings of the Taylor farm,
six miles above the city itself.  Colonel Taylor, or "Colonel Dick"
as he was known along the frontier, had been Collector of the Port of
Louisville until Louisiana ceased to be foreign territory, in 1804,
but for the past six years had abstained from politics altogether and
devoted himself to his farm.  With the exception of George Rogers
Clark, who lived across the river from Louisville, he was the town's
most prominent citizen, however; an old friend of President Madison,
his influence at Washington bore no little weight.

As the two men approached the farm, negroes came running out, Boone
was recognized with a delighted shout, and from the different
buildings appeared the family itself.  Colonel Taylor and his wife
were joined by Zach and his bride, and while Norton's horse was led
away he met with an exuberant welcome from the hard-featured
kindly-eyed lieutenant, his own elder by two years.

"Dad, this is Captain Norton," cried Taylor, introducing his friend
in mad delight.  "He's the man I've told you about so much--the
officer who cleared out those river pirates by Nagatoches!
Margaret--Mother!  Upon my word, Jack, what the devil brought you
here?"

This final outburst of helpless amazement evoked a general laugh, and
Norton found himself placed at his ease by the quiet hospitality of
old Colonel Dick.  Boone was the guest of honour, however, and the
old frontiersman was at once accorded an easy chair by the fireplace
when the party gathered inside to hear the news.

Of this Boone brought little enough, beyond the fact he had cleared
off his old debts and was ready to start for Missouri with a dollar
in his pocket and a clear mind.

"You just missed Kitty Grigg," said Colonel Dick.  "She was out here
to visit Margaret, while I was trying to keep that skunk Duval from
ridin' home with her----"

"Ye didn't do it," chuckled Boone.  "We met 'em--consarn them
lawyers!"

He proceeded to give a brief account of the meeting, which drew a
roar of applause from Zach and his father.  Norton, however, was bent
on more serious matters than visiting, and waved aside the eager
questions which rained upon him.

"No, there's no news--General Harrison is keeping things pretty quiet
along the border, and the last I heard there was no immediate talk of
a British war.  I believe Zach's going to get a captaincy before
long, though.  I've resigned, and the older officers won't transfer
into the Seventh; they think the regiment won't last long----"

"You've resigned?" broke in Zach blankly.  "Why--good Lord, Jack!
You ain't goin' to take up farming?  Got married?"

"Neither one," laughed Norton easily.  "I have letters to you,
Colonel Taylor, to Governor Harrison, and to Colonel Boone here--and
I want help.  There's been a good deal of piracy of late, as you may
know, and my business here is to get that mysterious fellow,
Blacknose----"

His words were drowned in a sudden crash, as Boone knocked over one
of the huge andirons with his foot.  Zachary Taylor darted to the
door and slammed it with a bang; Mrs. Taylor went white, and Colonel
Dick started abruptly.

"My dear Norton," he said quickly, frowning, "your business here had
best wait until the morning, when we will go to town with Colonel
Boone and talk it over then.  Margaret, will you see that the
guest-cab in is made ready?  How did you make out with your beaver,
Daniel?"

And Norton fell into an amazed silence, while old Boone told of his
hunting trip, Why had the mere name of a river-pirate brought fear to
such men as these, and pallor to the faces of the two women?

"By thunder!" he exclaimed inwardly, listening to the old
frontiersman's jerky sentences.  "I wonder if I've struck a bigger
thing than they dreamed of at New Orleans?"




CHAPTER II

Upon attaining his majority three years before, John Norton had
gained a commission through the influence of his uncle, a merchant at
New Orleans.  Yellow fever had left him alone in the world six months
afterward, and he had looked forward to a career in the army.  By a
curious combination of circumstances, however, he had now resigned
that career to enter on a more hazardous and difficult task.

What he remembered of his life had been centred about New Orleans,
but beyond a casual acquaintance with his uncle's business he had not
lingered about the city save for a few weeks at a time.  A few years
of wandering in the Southern woods with friendly Indians, traders,
and frontiersmen had given him a thorough mastery of woodcraft; with
this his brief military career had not interfered, for he had
conducted several treaty-making or mapping expeditions through
eastern Louisiana, once as far as Florida.

Now, however, a new service had offered itself to him.  The Ohio
Valley trade came largely to St. Louis and New Orleans, by means of
arks and flatboats.  It was easy to float down with the current, and
men took down their wares, sold them, and came back overland, for the
return river journey was difficult.  A few years before, banditti had
been numerous until the Kentucky riflemen had broken up the Harpe and
Mason gang of pirates.  Since that time there had arisen a new king
of the lawless, whose doings had all but paralyzed the river trade.

"Let me give you my own story first, gentlemen," said Norton quietly,
as he rode between Colonel Dick and Boone, with Zach just ahead.
"Since you seem to jump at the very name of Blacknose, things must
indeed be in a poor state up here."

The others merely nodded.  All four were riding slowly toward
Louisville; the sun was but recently up, and in the brisk morning air
all thought of danger or trouble seemed very vague and distant.  Yet
Boone's keen gaze never left the roadside.

"As you will, sir," responded Colonel Dick courteously.  "My son has
told us of you, and we would be only too glad to hear of your family.
I knew a gallant gentleman of your name--a Major Charles Norton, of
my own Virginian regiment under General Washington."

"He was my father."  And Norton's face darkened.

"What, sir--your father!"  Colonel Taylor drew rein suddenly.

"Yes.  He brought his family west, expecting to settle at
Cincinnati--he was a member of that society, of course, and was
attracted by the name.  He had barely reached there when he found a
message from my Uncle John, who had gone to St. Louis.  My father
decided to join him, and undertook the trip with a brother officer
named Moore.

"This was in the fall of 1790, when I was four years old.  During the
winter my father and Captain Moore built a large ark, and early in
the spring embarked both families, with their property and slaves.
The ark passed Louisville, and after that--it vanished."

"Good heavens, sir--what do you mean?" demanded Colonel Taylor,
staring.  Norton smiled.

"River pirates.  I was fetched to St. Louis by my old nigger mammy in
a crazy canoe; she died before she could more than tell who I was,
having been shot.  Beyond a doubt the ark was surprised, either by
Indians or pirates, only my devoted old black mammy getting me away.
The rest were never heard from again----"

Norton proceeded to give a brief account of how his uncle had adopted
him, later removing to New Orleans, and of how his own life had
fitted him for the task in hand.

"Now, as you all know," he continued calmly, "the river somewhere
between here and Fort Massac has been terrorized by a band of river
pirates.  Whether whites or Indians, no one knows, for the simple
reason that they take no prisoners.  For some reason the rumour has
crept out that their leader is called Blacknose, and is a member of
the old Mason gang.  This may or may not be true----"

"For heaven's sake, man, don't speak that name!" broke out the
younger Taylor.  "If any group discusses the name in these parts,
they suffer for it.  Dad urged the Legislature to send out the
militia to guard the river against him; three days later our barns
were burned.  The same thing has happened to other men.  We know
nothing more about the gang than you do, except that it must have an
excellent spy system."

Norton listened, his face setting into cold lines.

"No one asks you to talk of him," he returned grimly.  "I'll do all
that's necessary.  Three months ago the New Orleans merchants got
together to discuss the damages being wrought upon the river-trade;
they knew I was a woodsman and that I had had the luck to break up
that Nagatoches gang, so they came to me.  I accepted the task of
smashing this Blacknose, and I mean to do it.  Gentlemen, my letters."

With this, he handed a letter each to Boone and Taylor, then moved a
few paces on to the side of the lieutenant.

"See here, Norton," exclaimed the latter, with a glance at his
father, "let me join you in----"

"Not much, Zach."  And Norton smiled grimly.  "You're a farmer, not a
woodsman; besides, you've a bride to take care of.  No--that's final."

Taylor said no more, and John Norton gazed out at the view beyond the
little rising knoll on which they stood.  It was close enough to the
river to be in sight of the falls, and directly opposite them, on the
Indiana shore, was Clarksville.  Norton's eye lingered a moment on
the large house which stood at the point of rocks; he had learned on
the previous day that this was the home of George Rogers Clark, one
of the great frontier heroes, but now an old man and crippled.

His gaze swept on to Louisville, half of its one street hidden by a
rising knoll of cot ton woods.  The stone court-house, the
bell-roofed taverns, the Gault gardens at the upper end of
town--Norton looked past these to Shippingsport, the little harbour
below the falls, and his eyes narrowed.  Here began his trail, as he
knew well.  From Shippingsport went out every ounce of freight to New
Orleans from Louisville and all points up-river, for only experienced
pilots could bring any craft through the falls.  Louisville was to
all intents the starting-point of river traffic, and somewhere
between Louisville and Fort Massac, at the juncture of the Ohio and
Mississippi, had vanished a full third of all the rich cargoes sent
down in the past three years.

Having already mapped out a vague plan in his mind, he turned to the
two older men, and smiled slightly.  Boone had just finished spelling
out his letter painfully enough, and was staring at it in disgust;
Colonel Taylor was looking at his horse's head with a stern sadness,
the cause of which the younger man knew only too well.

"One moment, Colonel Dick," said Norton gently.  The two gazed up
quickly.  "I wish to draw you into nothing which can----"

"Captain Norton," broke in the other sternly, "I have never refused
to do my duty, whatever the consequences, nor do I intend to falter
now.  My aid is yours, sir."

"You mistake me," smiled Norton, trying to offset the hint of tragedy
in the other's eyes, "Since conditions here are as you inform me,
there is no reason for my incriminating you.  If these river pirates
really have a spy system in effect, my mission will be discovered
sooner or later.  Do you go on to town with Zach; from this moment we
are strangers.  The only good you can do me is to request those whom
you can trust that they will supply all I demand and draw on the New
Orleans merchants who signed that letter to you.  For your sake and
that of your family, do as I ask.  In this manner you can serve me
best.  Colonel Boone will, I am sure, bear me out in this."

The old frontiersman nodded quickly.  Colonel Taylor hesitated, then
stretched a hand to Norton.

"God bless you, my boy--and if you need help in the open, come to me."

Norton smiled, exchanged a handgrip and a word with Lieutenant
Taylor, and watched father and son ride off toward the town.  Then he
turned to Boone, to find the old man looking glumly at him.

"Well?" he laughed questioningly.  "Has Blacknose taken the heart out
of you, or have you forgotten how to fire a rifle?"

To his intense amazement, Boone nodded and spat in the road.

"Yep.  That's it.  See here, Norton: I fit Injuns all my life and I
ain't quit yet, but my hide's got to feelin' good on my back.  Now
I'm goin' to help you, but I ain't goin' to hunt them river pirates.
I ain't ripe to die, not by a good ways!  No, sir!  I'm a God-fearin'
man, Norton, and I ain't huntin' after trouble."

"What do you mean?" queried the perplexed Norton, taken utterly aback
by the old man's attitude.  "What can I count on----"

"You listen here."  Boone's blue eyes wandered off among the trees as
he spoke.  "I ain't afeard o' no man livin', but I got a wife to
pervide for.  Now, we'll go down to the tavern and I'll bring you a
feller who knows the hull country around here and who'll act as
go-betwixt for anything you want.  How you fixed on the military end?"

"I've letters to General Harrison from General Wilkinson, which will
allow me to make use of the militia if I wish.  Why?"

"Well, you 'tend to the military yourself an' listen here."  Boone
leaned over and dropped his voice, his eyes still on the trees.  "Ye
know where Blue River runs into the Ohio?  Well, forty-five mile down
the river from here, an' twelve mile this side o' Blue River, there's
a big rocky cliff on the Injianny shore, with a cabin an' mebbe more
cabins under it.  But _you_ stay on the Kaintuck side, mind.
D'reckly opposite that cliff, ye'll find a big cottonwood blazed
north an' south.  Head right south from that there tree, an' in
less'n two mile you'll find a cabin.  That's where Red Hugh lives.
Go an' find him if he's there; if he ain't, wait till he comes back.
Tell him 'bout me sending ye, and ask fer help if ye need it."

"Who's Red Hugh?" demanded Norton, wondering.

"That's more'n I can tell ye."  And Boone shook his head.  "I've
knowed him off an' on hard on twenty year.  He raises crops there,
an' goes on reg'lar spring an' fall hunts after Injuns.  They killed
off his fam'ly, I reckon, an' God ain't softened his heart
yet--though He will some day, I reckon.  He most gen'rally does--
_Lay down_!  _Quick_!"

The last three words shot out with vehement force; instinctively,
Norton obeyed the swift gesture and ducked forward.  Something sang
over his head, almost brushing his hair; there came a crack on the
wind, and he looked up to see a little drift of white rise from a
clump of cottonwoods a hundred yards away.

Before he quite realized what had happened, the rifle was torn out of
his hand and Boone was sighting.  The flint fell uselessly, and with
a muttered curse the old frontiersman slipped from his horse and ran
for the trees whence had come the shot.  Norton, now comprehending,
was after him instantly.

Active though he was, he had hard work keeping up with Boone.
Together they gained the trees, to find nothing more than a slight
tinge of powder on the air, until Boone leaned over the ground,
pointing.

"Here he was, the skunk!  Come on, now."

His trained eye making out the tracks, Norton followed.  After five
minutes they came out on Beargrass Creek, and on the opposite shore
was no trail.

"Slipped us," cried Boone savagely.  "Consarn him!  He might ha' gone
up or down, so let's git out o' here whilst our hides are safe."

Whereupon, the old woodsman turned and incontinently made for the
horses, as did Norton.  The assassin had had time to reload, and
tracking him in the river bed was impossible.  When they had regained
the horses, Boone held out something to Norton.

"Find the feller who owns this, an' ye've got him.  I reckon your
errand has slipped out, friend."

Norton smiled faintly at the grim sarcasm in the old man's voice, and
looked at the object.  It was the plug of a powder-horn evidently
dropped in haste.  Finely carved in greyish horn, the stopper was
crossed lengthwise by a band of red.

"You find a feller with a horn what's got a red streak in it," went
on Boone, "and a wooden plug; he's wearin' Shawnee moccasins instead
o' boots; he's left-handed, 'cause he rested his rifle that side o'
the tree, an' I wouldn't wonder but what he was cross-eyed."

"Huh?  Why cross-eyed?" queried Norton, frowning, and dropped the
plug in his shirt.

"'Cause he didn't see me a-watchin' them trees," cackled the old man,
and swung up to his saddle.  "Now let's git away from here; it makes
me plumb scared.  What do you reckon ye'll do first off?"

"Take advice," smiled Norton easily.  "All I can get.  I fancy the
pirates are in league with some one here, for they've dropped on the
best cargoes and let the poor ones pass by.  It looks as if they had
spies here, sure enough."

"An' one of 'em's wearin' Shawnee moccasins," chuckled Boone.  "Well,
afore ye git desp'rit, go see Red Hugh.  Now, you git up to the
tavern an' wait till I come.  I'm a-goin' to see Kitty Grigg."

"Kitty Grigg?"  Norton's mind went back swiftly to the girl he had
glimpsed on the previous day.  "Who is she, Colonel?"

"Well, Ol' Abel Grigg 'lows she's his daughter," returned the other
slowly.  "'Fraid Abel ain't much account, though.  He was with me
back in the Blue Lick massacree, and cert'nly fit good, but went bad
later.  I've knowed Kathleen sence afore I went to Missouri, and if
she's Abel's daughter, then, by gum, I'll sculp myself!"

"Grigg lives at Louisville, then?"

"No--he's a hunter, mostly.  Has a farm back o' town a piece.  Well,
see ye later!  What tavern ye goin' to?"

"The 'Steuben Arms', just beyond Doctor Gault's residence."

Boone nodded, and rode off along a forest trail leading to the south,
while Norton pursued his course into town.

Who had fired that shot?  He thought of Duval's threat, but Duval was
no woodsman, and the assassin was, as his method of escape testified.
It seemed much more likely that, as Boone had said, some hint of his
mission had leaked out.

How that could have been, Norton knew not.  He had breathed no word
of it to any man from leaving New Orleans until reaching the Taylor
farm, nor had he discussed either piracy in general or Blacknose in
particular.  He had kept his ears open along the frontier but had
learned nothing; no one had ever seen Blacknose, no one so much as
knew whether there were a Blacknose or not.  The name was a rumour, a
border myth--and only in Louisville was it backed up by reality,
reflected Norton.

He had not been sent on any false trail, that was certain.  Neither
the up-river farmers and merchants nor those of New Orleans could
give him any definite information; yet both they and Norton knew well
that in this year of grace, 1810, when settlements and cabins were
scattered all along the Ohio and Mississippi, flatboat after flatboat
could not vanish into thin air with their crews.

Norton's private opinion had been that Blacknose was a renegade who
led a band of Indians and kept in touch with some one at Louisville
for information.  That opinion was sorely shaken by what the Taylors
had said, however.  He began to think the whole affair was engineered
by river pirates alone, and so rode slowly into town, lost in
thought.  Nor did he forget the horn plug which now reposed in his
pocket.  Sooner or later he would find the man who wore Shawnee
moccasins and whose powder-horn was mottled with a red streak, and he
promised himself that something unpleasant would happen to the
gentleman in question.

As he splashed through the mud in front of the courthouse, he saw the
figure of Duval going up the steps.  The lawyer had not observed him,
however, and Norton watched him disappear inside.  For the Far West
the courthouse was a stately building, with its two stories, ornate
cupola, and handsome pillars.

The Louisianian rode slowly on down the one principal street toward
the lower end of town, and so came to the "Steuben Arms", whose host
had once served under the fiery baron in the late war.  Indeed, it
was for this reason alone that Norton had chosen the place, for it
was none of the best; he had been disappointed in finding Bower an
infirm, mumbling old veteran.

Dismounting, he gave his reins to the waiting negro, nodded to old
Bower as he passed through the public room, and sought his own
chambers.  He had no desire to hang about below-stairs, since the inn
seemed frequented by rivermen.


The morning was well advanced when, in response to a knock, Norton
opened the door and admitted Colonel Boone and a stranger.  This
stranger was a peculiar individual, even for a time when the border
was crowded with peculiar personages.  He was dressed in a dirty
shirt with dirty ruffles, an ancient beaver, ancient scarlet velvet
breeches, shoes which had burst at the toes, and a greatcoat of
reddish fustian.  Below a greasy and dishevelled wig, his face was
small and pinched, yet very ruddy and healthy; he seemed to Norton an
odd little old man, and his black eyes twinkled perpetually.

"Captain Norton, my friend, Mr. Elisha Ayres, Gent.," declaimed Boone
with something like a grin.  "Ayres, young Norton's the likeliest
feller I've seen in a coon's age."

"That, sir," averred Mr. Ayres in a slow and precise tone, "is a
truer knighthood than any which could be bestowed by the crowned
heads of the Old World!  I trust you appreciate the honour, Mr.
Norton, sir!  I am yours to command."

"You can trust Mr. Ayres, Norton," continued Boone.  "Now, I'm goin'
to git home.  Pow'ful glad I met ye, Norton, and if ye need to do a
little shootin', go find Red Hugh.  Ye can trust Elisha----"

"You're not starting for Missouri--now?" inquired the astonished
Norton.

"Not yet--goin' to crack a bowl o' punch at Doc Gault's first."  And
Boone shook hands with both men, then turned to the door.  Norton had
a last glimpse of the barrel-like chest, grey hair, and keen eyes;
then Boone was gone with a final wave of the hand.

"Well, Captain Norton," began Ayres in his dry precise manner,
"Colonel Boone has told me of your mission in these parts, sir.  I
congratulate you heartily, sir, and I congratulate these United
States upon having a public servant of your spirit----"

Norton smiled to himself.  He began to think that Boone had made the
best of a bad bargain by passing off the first person he had picked
up as an assistant.

"What is your business, Mr. Ayres?" he inquired, wondering how best
to get rid of the ruddy-cheeked little man.

"I am a schoolmaster, sir"; and as he spoke, Ayres settled back in
his chair and pulled forth a pipe.  "By the way, Mr. Norton, the man
who shot at you this morning is a hunter from down-river.  His name I
do not know, but he wears a fox-skin cap with the brush hanging,
dresses in buckskin like yourself, and wears a black beard."

Norton started.

"Are you jesting, sir?  Do you know this man?"

"I do not."  And Ayres fell to work with flint and steel, until he
had a light for his pipe.  "I saw him last week, and chanced to note
the redstreaked powder-horn.  When my friend Colonel Boone told me of
it, I remembered.  That is all.  Ah--one point further--he was
discussing some of our host's excellent Virginia whisky, in company
with one Charles Duval, Gent., a fellow townsman of mine."

While Norton was still trying to assimilate the information imparted
by this queer individual, the bell on the roof banged out its summons
to dinner.  Ayres arose with a grandiose bow.

"You will honour me, sir, by your company below?  Then we can discuss
matters at our leisure."

Norton swallowed hard, nodded, and followed to the door.  He began to
think that he had sadly misjudged Colonel Daniel Boone.




CHAPTER III

Norton rather regretted his hasty choice of taverns.  The "Steuben
Arms" had in its day been a fine inn, but its day was done.  Located
conveniently to Shippingsport, its clientele now consisted largely of
rivermen, merchants, and such of the townsmen as found its rates
better suited to their purses than those of the new taverns.

Passing through the deserted travellers' room, Ayres led his guest on
into the public dining-room, where the long table was already
partially filled.  At the upper end sat Bower, the host--a feeble old
man with tobacco-stained beard.  The overhead fans were pulled by a
negro girl in the corner.

Ayres settled down in a chair at an unoccupied space, Norton
following suit.  Then, when the little man had nodded to Bower and
signed to a negro waiter, he turned and spoke in a low voice.

"Now, Mr. Norton, had you any definite plan of action? ... Until the
table fills up, we will pass unnoticed."

Norton nodded, glancing around.  A number of rivermen were talking
loudly; two or three merchants were discussing prices--and profanity
hung over the long room like a cloud.

"Well," he returned slowly, "I thought that a boat might be well
laden here, quietly pick up a force of men farther down the river,
and so be used as a lure.  With such a spy system as seems to
prevail, however, that looks rather hopeless."

Ayres nodded.

"A good plan, sir, a good plan, yet doubtful of success.  As you say,
the people in question would hear of it and you would be laughed at
for your pains.  The case, sir, calls for circumspection."

"Quite so," agreed Norton drily, "Have you any suggestions to make,
sir?"

"I hope to have some, Captain Norton.  Granted that an organization
exists, we may presuppose it to be composed of white men.  Negroes or
Indians would be sure to let out the secret.  Given, then, white men:
these might be scattered settlers, or they might be a small band of
determined men down-river, whose friends and directors work from
Louisville or some such point.  We may take it, I trust, that one or
two members of the gang ship on the designated boats and act as
accomplices in the crime."

Ayres paused, in order to absorb a huge pinch of snuff--after which
he allowed the waiter to get out of hearing, and prepared to attack
his dinner.

"You are aware," he went on calmly, "that the richer cargoes go down
in a fleet, under an experienced commodore.  Invariably, one or two
boats vanish overnight--but never at the same point in the river.  It
would be easy for a member of the crew to untie the moorings and let
the boat slip down the stream.  Now, remember these points; and
remember also that if there is a down-river band, they must have a
hiding-place where the stolen cargoes can be stored away until
disposed of."

Concluding his speech with extreme haste, Ayres abruptly began his
dinner as the nearer seats were filled up.  Gathering that the
discussion was ended for the present, Norton applied himself to
dinner also.  Whisky was circulating freely, and while they ate, the
rivermen filled the room with tales of river life, most of which were
more spicy than refined.

"Gen'lemen, yew hear me!" broke out one of two men opposite Norton--a
big, hairy man of immense build.  His companion was bronzed,
gloomy-eyed, and stern-faced, and both had been absorbing vast
quantities of white whisky.  "Gen'lemen," boomed the big fellow,
glaring around, "thar's gwine to be war.  I'm tellin' yew!  War!  Yew
hear me!"

"We hear ye all right," piped up a shrill voice.  "Who's the war
with?"

"Gen'lemen, your health!"  And the big man emptied his glass.  "Thet
thar feller they call the Prophet--the one-eyed crazy dog, he's
a-stirrin' up the Injuns.  Yew hear me, gen'lemen, ol' man Harrison
he's gwine to need Kaintuck rifles afore long!  Who said ol' Dan'l
Boone was in town?"

Whereupon there followed an excited discussion of Boone.  In the
midst, the gloomy-eyed companion of the big man brought down his fist
with a crash on the table.

"This here generation's got to suffer for its sins!" he roared out in
a vibrant voice, fastening his eye on Norton.  "Friends, read the
prophecies of the inspired Richard Brother!  There'll ye find set
forth about the Injun war, and the cursed Federals ruining the
country!  That there inspired man, he was a prophet.  Damnation to
the Federals, say----"

The gloomy-eyed man said no more, for a roar went up at his words.

"Ye drunken Democrat," cried some one, "take that!"

With which a heavy pitcher of molasses struck the gloomy-eyed man
above the ear, smashed, and sent him down senseless.  His big
companion sprang up like a cat, drew back his arm, and a knife
flashed across the room in a flame of glittering light.  It did no
harm, save to precipitate a general fight.  Norton was just rising to
escape, when a deep cold voice broke in upon the uproar:

"Gentlemen, make way!"

Norton started.  He looked up to see the figure of Duval entering the
door, against which two fighting cursing men had reeled.  Duval took
them by the shoulders and tore them apart; one went spinning down the
room; the other crashed into the wall, and the lawyer strode forward.

That display of strength was not lost upon John Norton, nor the calm
which instantly followed.  Instead of being mobbed, Duval seemed to
inspire these rivermen with fear--all save the big hairy man opposite
Norton.  He alone paid no heed; having caught the man who had laid
out his companion, he was administering a sound thrashing when Duval
caught him by the shoulder and tore him loose.

"Go to your seat," commanded Duval, cold and immobile.  The other
glared at him.

"Who the devil are yew?" he demanded hoarsely.  "Take yer hand off'n
me--I'm liable to sculp ye!  Yew hear me!  I'm gwine to lay out this
cussed Federal.  I don't care ef he's Blacknose hisself!"

A startled silence fell, while Duval still gazed coldly into the big
man's eyes.  There was something terrible in the lawyer's immobility;
then Norton saw that he was holding a small pistol against the big
man's chest.

"Go to your seat," he repeated icily.  The other felt the pistol,
glanced down at it, and obeyed sullenly.  Norton felt a hand on his
arm.

"Let us go, sir," murmured Ayres very softly.  Norton nodded, rose,
and they left the room together.


Five minutes later they were sitting side by side in the chairs
before the tavern, pipes out.  Norton's thoughts were dwelling on
this man Duval, and he wondered afresh if the lawyer had been behind
that attempted assassination of the morning.  The man hardly seemed
of such a nature; he had quieted the rivermen by sheer force of voice
and muscle, and was plainly a man known and feared.

"Who is this Duval?" asked Norton, glancing at his friend.

"A lawyer, sir, who speaks of going to the Legislature next fall.  He
comes of a good Virginia family, settled here some three years since,
and has a fair practice.  A rising man, sir, a rising man.  One of
our ablest citizens, and already talks of raising a company in case
General Harrison has trouble with the redskins."

Norton thought he detected a faint hint of sarcasm in the precise
voice, but Ayres's pinched, red-cheeked face was expressionless.

"Well, have you any sort of plan, Mr. Ayres?"

"An excellent one, sir," came the surprising answer.  Ayres knocked
out his pipe slowly.  "I would suggest that you follow Colonel
Boone's advice, and go to see this man Red Hugh, of whom he told you.
When you have seen him, you may expect a messenger from me at the
Blue River settlement--on the Kentucky side, remember, for there are
two.  I may find it feasible to put your prior plan into operation
and use a rich-laden flatboat for lure."

"Hm!"  Norton looked at the other keenly.  "Do you seriously believe
that Duval had anything to do with the man who shot at me this
morning?"

He was amazed, upon meeting the black eyes of his friend, to find
them in a terrible earnestness.

"Sir,"--and the dry precise voice quivered the slightest bit--"it is
my honest belief that if you remain in this town overnight, you will
be murdered."

Startled, Norton gave the other a keen look.  Then he smiled slightly.

"Murdered?  Man, what do you mean?  Is that gang----"

"I cannot say what I mean, sir," returned Ayres, rising.  "I hardly
know myself.  God forgive me if I misjudge Charles Duval!  But, sir,
this is my sincere advice: go and find Red Hugh, and go within the
hour.  You are a woodsman; therefore go by the trails and not by
boat.  Trust no man.  Sir, I--I have been doing much quiet
investigation of late, and I am appalled.  The whole thing is
indefinite and terrible.  Most of what was said in the dining-room
there was lost upon you, but not upon me; and, sir, I will make you
this prediction: That big riverman, who only came in from Cincinnati
to-day, and who took the name of Blacknose in vain--that man will
die."

"Good Heavens, Ayres!"  Norton rose, aghast at the solemn earnestness
of the little schoolmaster.  "Do you know what you're saying?  This
isn't the Indian border, but----"

"Sir, this is Louisville, State of Kentucky, in the thirty-fourth
year of the Independence of the United States of America," responded
Ayres gravely.  He bowed.  "You may count upon hearing from me, Mr.
Norton, at Dodd's tavern at the Blue River settlement.  Let your task
be to scour the woods and settlements, meantime.  Sir, your servant,
and--and may God keep you!"

Whereupon, with another bow, the little man turned and marched
stiffly away, his absurd beaver cocked jauntily over one ear and his
fustian greatcoat fluttering behind him.  Norton stared after him,
then sank into his chair and drew out his tobacco.

"By thunder!" he muttered slowly to himself, the while he stuffed his
pipe, watching the lessening figure.  "I seem to have set foot in a
hornet's nest--and came near to getting stung this morning!  Now, I
wonder what that little fox of a schoolmaster suspects, and why he
imagines I am in danger here in the town itself!"

The very thought was amusing to Norton.  He knew very well that in
such centres of civilization as New Orleans, St. Louis, and
Louisville, men did not condone murder.  Even in the newer river
settlements, the older generation who had passed through the lawless
pioneer days were savagely set upon upholding a rude justice.  Boone
himself exampled this, for Norton had heard of how the old
frontiersman had made himself a terror while acting as magistrate in
Missouri.

That he had anything to fear in Louisville, therefore, seemed
impossible to Norton.  Duval might well have hired the assassin of
the morning; yet it was more likely that some hint of his mission had
leaked out, thought the Louisianian.  There was most certainty a
secret organization of river-pirates; so much had been amply proved
to him, but he was still inclined to smile at the terror it inspired.

"Still," he reflected sagely, "men like Taylor and Boone aren't
exactly fools.  And I rather believe Elisha Ayres is no fool, either.
So, my assailant is black-bearded, wears a brushed fox-skin cap, and
has a red-streaked powder-horn!  Something gained, at all events.
Mr. Ayres, I believe I will heed your warning."

Having plenty of money, Norton called one of the negroes loafing in
the sun and ordered his horse saddled, then went down the street to
the store of Audubon & Rosier, where he found the junior partner and
purchased a few supplies.  As he was leaving, Rosier leaned over the
counter with a cautious glance at the door.

"Your pardon, sir I believe your name is Norton?"

"It is, sir," returned the surprised Louisianian.

"Colonel Taylor spoke to me of you," went on the other rapidly.  "You
may rely upon us absolutely, sir.  If by chance you meet my partner
somewhere in the woods, do not fear to trust him.  He is slightly
touched in the head, but save for his long wanderings is--"  A man
passed outside, and without a change in his low tone Rosier
continued.  "As I was saying, sir, General Harrison can control the
Indians excellently----"

Norton took the hint and passed out with a nod, storing away in his
mind the name of the senior partner, Audubon.  It occurred to him
that if he was joining forces with a hermit Indian-slayer and a
schoolmaster, a half-crazed merchant who evidently spent his time
wandering in the woods would make a good third.


Returning to the tavern, he found it deserted in front, though a
murmur of loud voices came from the dining-room.  It seemed slightly
odd that dinner was not yet over, but he went to his room, got his
things, and after some search located Bower's daughter in the
kitchens.  He paid her his bill, then went around to the front for
his horse.

Now John Norton was no fool, as may have been previously inferred.
Despite his respect for the law, Ayres's words had set his nerves on
edge, in conjunction with what had happened that day.  Like all
woodsmen, he much preferred danger in the woods to danger in the
town; as he tied his purchases and rifle to his saddle, he found
himself glancing nervously over his shoulder.  And even as he set
foot in the stirrup, he paused.

There was a horrible shuffling step from the doorway behind, and he
whirled, hand on knife, to see the big hairy riverman clutching the
door-post.  The giant's face was terribly convulsed, and one hand
gripped at a knife-haft whose blade was buried in his side.  Barely
had Norton comprehended, when the man pulled the knife free, coughed,
and fell dead.  With the same instant there rose a shrill yell from
the doorway behind, and men came crowding out.

"There he is!  Thar's the murderer!" went up the shout.  "Git him,
boys!"

A pistol flashed, and the ball sang past Norton's ear.  Dodging
behind his horse, he realized everything in a flash; Ayres's
prediction had proved terribly true, and what was worse, the
murderers were trying to fasten the crime on him.  More, they were
trying to kill him before he had a chance to deny his guilt.  Whether
Duval's work or not----

Sensing all this as he dodged, Norton wasted neither time nor
movement.  Before the first of the crowd poured out across the dead
man, he made a flying leap for the saddle, gained it, and sent his
horse ahead on the jump.  He knew his one chance lay in getting out
of town within the hour--as Ayres had predicted.

Another pistol cracked behind him, and another.  The balls whistled
harmlessly past, but served to draw attention.  Several men leaped
into the road, shouting; Norton drove his horse at them with a yell,
and they fell away.  Without thought, he had headed up-town and now
had no choice but to continue his way along the south road.

The last of the fine brick houses was almost past, and the uproar
behind him was being swelled by voices and bells.  The final house
was a splendid mansion--Norton knew it for that of a Doctor Gault.
As he pounded past the terraced gardens, he glanced up to the doorway
and caught sight of a group of figures--Colonel Taylor, Zach, Boone
and others.  A wave of the hand came to him, a shouted farewell, and
Louisville fell behind.

"And now for the chase," thought Norton grimly, pulling in his steed
a trifle.  "They'll fasten that murder on me and get me--if they can.
It's a neat manner to be rid of an enemy--the second attempt in one
morning, the day after my arrival in town!  Now I would call that
quick work, brainy work, but desperate work.  Whoever he is,
Blacknose fears me--good!  If I can match his villainy with honest
woodcraft, he shall fear me more."

Twisting in the saddle, Norton looked back, having caught a sudden
thud of hoofs.  He thundered past a cross-roads, and although the
town was shut out behind, the horseman who followed was plainly
visible.  He wore a crushed beaver-hat, scarlet breeches, and a
fluttering greatcoat; as Norton gazed in amazement, the other waved
him onward.  Ayres, for it was no other, drew up at the cross-roads,
carefully spattered mud over the road from a puddle, then departed at
a gallop by the eastern track and was lost to sight.

"Covering my trail--the old fox!" exclaimed Norton.  "Mr. Ayres, my
compliments.  You may be a schoolmaster, but John Norton owes you his
life this day!"

And he rode on to the south.




CHAPTER IV

That there would be pursuit Norton knew well enough.  He knew also
that if he were caught, he would not be brought back to Louisville
alive; Blacknose, being a person of sufficient wit to make so shrewd
and swift a plot, would have him safely shot in order to preclude all
possible danger.  Once past Sullivan's ferry, where the post-road
crossed the Ohio to Vincennes seven miles below Shippingsport, Norton
knew that he would have the wilderness ahead and his own good wits to
rely upon.

More than once he pondered on the subject of Charles Duval.  He more
than suspected the lawyer of being at the bottom of the affair at the
tavern, though this seemed hardly possible on sober second thought.
He had seen nothing of Duval in the crowd about the door, but the
memory of how the man had silenced the riot during dinner still
remained with him.  Duval had influence, it seemed, and he was also a
prominent citizen.

John Norton was pre-eminently just.  He admitted to himself that he
had taken an instant dislike to Duval upon meeting the latter on the
Beargrass Creek Road the day before.  The dislike was based on no
solid ground.  Duval was the type of man best fitted to capture the
liking of frontiersmen--strong, powerful, unafraid and brainy.  None
the less, Norton did not like him.  Either, he considered, his errand
had been noised abroad and the river-pirates had tried to eliminate
him that morning, or else Duval had been behind the two attempts on
his life.

"And if I'm to take my choice," he thought, "I'd say it was the
pirates."

None the less, it was with a distinct shock that a moment later he
recognized Charles Duval slowly riding toward him.  Norton drew rein,
astounded.

His track had degenerated into a mere forest trail, since he had
struck away from the main pike which Ayres had followed, to throw off
the pursuers.  Trees were on every side, and Norton could only
conjecture that he had come some four miles from the town.  Yet here
was Duval riding toward him--Duval, whom he had supposed was even
then urging on his pursuers!

With him was walking a man, and Norton eyed the pair keenly enough as
they approached.  Duval's horse was warm, but not foam-flecked, and
it was a warm day; the lawyer had been doing no furious riding; so
much was clear.  Almost reluctantly, Norton instantly absolved him of
any complicity in the plot at the tavern.  The man with him was very
tall and gaunt, dressed in backwoods style, carried a rifle, had a
bushy grizzled beard, a thin, hooked nose and very deep-set dark
eyes.  He had not been at the tavern.

The pair sighted Norton almost as he saw them, and stopped for an
instant in evident surprise.  He saw Duval say something in a low
voice; then both came forward.  To Norton's great surprise, the
lawyer advanced with hand outstretched and a smile upon his face
which seemed sincere enough.

"Sir," exclaimed Duval heartily, "I must ask your pardon for my words
of yesterday.  I was somewhat in liquor, and irritated at the moment.
May I have the honour of your name, sir?"

Norton, with no hint of his inward amazement, gripped the other's
proffered hand and looked squarely into Duval's dark eyes.  He read
there only a sincere regret, however, and after giving his name
proceeded to compliment the lawyer on his evident prestige among the
rivermen as exemplified at the tavern that noon.  Duval's eyes
narrowed a trifle.

"Yes, I saw you go out," he returned, "and left myself shortly after.
As to those flatboat-men, if some one did not overawe them
occasionally they would run the town.  By the way, Mr. Norton, meet
Mr. Grigg, one of our old settlers and a solid farmer of the
vicinity."

This designation seemed to draw a grin from Grigg, who stuck up a
huge paw with a muttered "Howdy!" to Norton.  The latter found the
backwoodsman's face a mixture of savagery, cunning and boldness; he
wondered idly what Duval had to do with such a man.

"Mr. Grigg and a neighbour are having a land dispute," smiled Duval
smoothly, as if reading the thought of Norton, "but we hope to settle
it out of court.  Thinking of buying a farm hereabouts?"

"No, I'm just on a tour," returned Norton easily.  "I'm from
Cincinnati, originally."

Which was quite true, but misleading.  For one thing, Norton
recollected that the man Grigg must be the father of the strikingly
beautiful girl he had met on the Beargrass Creek Road yesterday;
also, Colonel Boone's description of Grigg did not quite coincide
with that just given by Duval.  Remembering what Boone had said
regarding Grigg's parentage of the girl, Norton eyed the man with no
great favour.

Duval, of course, seemed to have no suspicion of what had happened at
the tavern--which happening, indeed, having been too recent for him
to know of it.  Norton concluded the lawyer had left the place while
he was absent at the store of Audubon & Rosier, and that after his
leaving, the rivermen had formulated their plot.  He wondered vaguely
whether or not the redoubtable Blacknose himself had been present at
dinner.

"Well, I must be going forward," he said.  "Can you tell me if this
trail will lead me around toward the river?"

"After a bit," nodded Duval, inspecting Norton's outfit piece by
piece.  "It runs past Mr. Grigg's farm, then forks.  Take the fork to
the left, which circles around to the river a few miles down.  Your
servant, sir!"

He bowed, Norton returning the compliment, and the three separated.

Passing through some marshy cane-brake, the Louisianian presently
came to higher ground, found the trees thinning, and perceived hemp
and tobacco fields to the right.  He was thinking of his own
situation, however, and wondering at Duval's change of front.  What
had caused the lawyer to take this sudden attitude?

Norton himself was a man who neither explained nor apologised for his
own actions, and knew Duval for the same kind of man.  There must be
something behind his abrupt apology and surprising amiability, he
concluded, though he was at a loss to conceive what it might be.
Colonel Taylor had spoken none too warmly of Duval the day before,
else he might have thought that Taylor had mentioned him and his
errand to the lawyer, as he had done to Rosier.

"By thunder!" frowned Norton, gazing at the few negroes at work in
the fields among the scattered stumps and girdled trees.  "There's
something almighty strange about this whole affair.  Well, I'm out of
it now, and if they can reach me in the woods--let them!  I guess
I'll call on the charming Madam Kitty Grigg.  Hm!  Duval seems to
have been ahead of me there, too.  I'm afraid that if I lingered in
Louisville, Mr. Duval and I would get farther than apologies----"

He laughed a little, feeling that if he came to hand-grips with Duval
the result might be dubious, but worth chancing.  And so he came to
Grigg's cabin, for farm it was not.


There was no mistaking the place; the girl herself was sitting on the
steps of the log shack, at work sewing.  Behind him, Norton saw the
back-ends of the plantations he had passed, whose buildings were
perhaps a mile or more distant.  Grigg's cabin was placed amid a
grove of half-dead maple and walnut--girdled but never cleared.  Even
as Norton drew rein and dismounted, the girl rising at sight of him,
a sudden thought came into his mind: Duval had said that he was in
liquor the day before.  Now Norton had seen enough drunken men to
know that Duval lied in that statement.

Dismissing this thought, however, he advanced to the shack with a
smile.  He had no cap and had neglected to buy one in town, and his
brown hair and bronzed face were very good to look upon in the warm
afternoon sunlight.

"This is Madam Kitty Grigg?" he smiled, bowing, "I met your father
and Mr. Duval upon the road, and finding that I had to pass here,
determined to crave the courtesy of a drink of water."

She looked at him steadily for a moment, one hand at her breast.
Once again Norton noted the clear beauty of her grey eyes and
gold-red hair, the character and fresh womanliness of her whole face.

"Sir--you met--my father and Mr. Duval?" she said slowly.  Norton
comprehended the alarm in her eyes, and laughed again.

"Aye, that I did, Kitty!" he cried gaily.  "And your Mr. Duval did me
the honour of an apology for what happened on the Beargrass Creek
Road yesterday.  But pardon--my name is John Norton, at your service
now and always."

She looked into his eyes for a moment longer, then turned and walked
around the corner of the house, beckoning.  Norton followed, to find
a spring trickling up beneath a crab-apple tree.  Gravely, she dipped
out a gourd of water, held it to him, and he drank.

"Thanks, Kitty!" he sighed.  "You have nigh saved my life this
day----"

"Then you had best save it for yourself," she returned quickly, yet
with a laugh in her eyes, "by departing speedily.  If Charles Duval
gave you an apology, look to your steps, sir!"

"Eh?"  Startled out of his gay mood, Norton looked keenly at her.
"Now what may you mean by that, sweet Kitty?"

The girl, however, only shrugged her shoulders and laughed.

"'Tis easy to see you are from Louisiana, Mr. Norton"--and he
marvelled at the ringing timbre of her voice--"since from you it is
'Kitty' and 'sweet Kitty', while our Kentuckians will ever have it
'Madam Grigg' or mayhap 'Miss Kathleen'."

"Faith, I had it _Kitty_ from Colonel Boone," laughed Norton easily.

"Oh, but he is an old family friend--a second father."  Abruptly, the
girl fell serious, and put out an imploring hand to his arm, as she
glanced at the trail.  "Pray, Mr. Norton--go at once!  You are in
danger, I assure you----"

"Not a bit of it," broke in Norton soberly.  "I'm in the woods to get
out of danger, Miss Kitty.  Even now, I suspect that horsemen are
searching for me on the Lexington post-road.  But I would like to
know what makes you think I am in danger----"

"Because my father allows no one around here"--and the girl drew back
with a slight flush.  Norton thought of Duval, but forbore to mention
the obvious.  "But--what do you mean?  Why are men searching for you?
Are you jesting?"

"Well, it's more or less of a joke," he laughed, seeing her quick
alarm.  Plainly, she knew more than did he; whether from Abel Grigg
or not, danger threatened and she was afraid.  So, with a light air,
he told her of what had chanced at the tavern.

She listened quietly, her eyes flitting from his face to the trees
and back again.  She was stirred out of herself.  Norton had never
seen so rare a girl in all his life--clear, incisive, with grey eyes
that could harden into ice or sparkle into star-glints.  The brown
homespun fell loosely enough about her slender figure, but Norton's
fancy transformed it into brocade, and he imagined this girl as she
would look were she dressed in the fashion of the New Orleans belles.

"By gad," he thought to himself, reaching the end of his story,
"Boone was right!  She is no daughter of Grigg's.  What a glorious
girl she is!"

"Evidently, sir, it was a plot against you," she said, her brow
wrinkling deliciously in thought.  "But why did you not stay and face
the absurd charge?"

"For many reasons"--and Norton was instantly on guard--"chief of
which was that I have important business down the river.  I believe
that I take the left fork from this trail, do I not?"

"If you wish to reach the Tennessee settlements, yes," she returned
drily.  "If you want to reach the river, take the right fork, which
brings you out just below the post-road at Sullivan's ferry."

"Eh?  You are certain of that?"

"Of course!"  There was wonder in the clear grey eyes.  "Why?"

"Oh, no reason at all--I must have been hugely mistaken in my notions
of your roads hereabouts," he smiled.  "You see, I am going to the
Blue River settlements and am a stranger in this country.  Did you
see Colonel Boone this morning?"

Norton was not at all surprised to find that Duval had directed him
to the wrong road.  He had half suspected as much, and guessed that
when the lawyer reached town he would set the pursuers going in the
right direction.  He was, however, no little astonished when the girl
shook her head in reply to his casual question.  Though Boone had not
said it in so many words, he had distinctly understood that the
frontiersman had seen the girl that morning.

"No, Mr. Norton--I was looking for him even now.  Was he in town?"

"He came to town with me from Colonel Dick Taylor's this morning,
Kitty--or let us say Kathleen, which is more dignified and has a
right Irish touch to it.  I thought he had intended to visit you long
ere this!"

"So had I," she returned, her eyes on the circling trees.  "Still, he
will be here before he leaves Kentucky.  He was doubtless detained on
business."

Norton nodded, remembering Elisha Ayres.  Probably Boone had sought
the little schoolmaster and the latter had detained him.  Well, so
much the better; friends were at work, and there seemed to be sore
need of them all.

"When you see him, then, tell him of seeing me here," said the
Louisianian.  It would be well to have Boone kept informed.  "He is a
very good friend----"

"Wait," the girl broke in quietly, frowning.  "What are you going to
do?  If the rivermen are after you, as it seems they are, you would
be very foolish to take the river trail----"

"I am a woodsman, sweet Kitty," he laughed easily, "and I am willing
to take my chance against any white man save only Boone--and perhaps
one other.  Would that honest Davy Crockett were here with me!  He
and I have had many a trail together, but--well, no matter.  Trust
me, Kitty; the forest can harm me not."

"But the river can, my confident paladin of Louisiana!  Bethink you,
the rivermen can use canoes to get ahead of you, lay an ambush----"

Norton uttered an ejaculation.  She was right--he had overlooked the
river.  With a sudden anxiety in his brown eyes, he looked at her
gravely, thinking hard.  His was no lack of self-reliance, else he
had not been on this present errand.  But he was in a strange
country, and the Kentuckians and rivermen were strange to him; above
all, to find himself so swiftly and shrewdly attacked, as he had been
that morning, was disconcerting.  He longed for some man at his back,
some man like young Crockett or old Boone, not dreaming what manner
of man Fate was even then leading to his comradeship.

"What think you I had best do, Madam Kathleen?" he asked quietly.
She flushed a little under his serious eyes, but met the look frankly.

"Take the Tennessee trail," she returned slowly.  "Since you are a
woodsman, and look it, this will be easy for you.  Take the fork to
the left, as you first intended; after a few miles, strike west and
work back north to the river gradually, through the woods.  Blue
River is only forty-five miles distant.  Do your enemies know your
destination?"

"No--it is known only to Mr. Elisha Ayres, who is my friend and
helper."

"Oh--you know him, then!"  The grey eyes widened suddenly, and he was
amazed at their quick friendliness and warmth.  "Why, 'twas he who
taught me learning!  Well, then, by all means circle around through
the woods to the Blue River, and God preserve you, sir!"

"I doubt not He will," responded Norton gravely.

He knelt beside the spring and dipped the gourd, more as an excuse
for his stay than because he wished a drink.  The girl refused the
proffered vessel, and Norton put it to his lips.

As he drank, his eyes fell on the shadow cast by the corner of the
log cabin.  A tuft of grass suddenly leaped from shadow to sunshine;
some moving object at the corner of the cabin had caused the change.
Norton was on his feet instantly, and a leap took him to the corner,
hand on knife.

Quick as he was, he found the front of the cabin deserted.  His horse
was grazing quietly; there was no flutter of leaves, no swing of
branches, to show that anyone had fled hastily into the trees.
Half-wondering if he had been mistaken, he glanced down at the ground
by the cabin corner, as the alarmed Kathleen joined him.

"Ah!" he cried swiftly, stooping over a faint mark on the ground.
"Get me that rifle from my saddle, Kitty!  Here is a gentleman who
wears a patched moccasin--"

"Stop!"  The girl caught his arm as he rose, and her face was set in
swift alarm.  "It was my father--I told you he did not like to have
strangers around!  I patched that moccasin myself--please go, and
quickly!"

"Hm!"  Norton looked at her.  "Does it occur to you, Kathleen, that
your worthy father may have overheard what we said about my journey?
By the way, are you so certain that he is your father?"

"Why--what mean you?"  The colour ebbed from her cheeks as she gazed
at him.  "Of course he is my father!  Please depart, sir----"

"Nay, I dislike to be hurried."  And Norton calmly pulled out his
pipe.  He was angry, but it showed only in his narrowed eyes.  "Now
our mutual friend, Colonel Boone, seems to have an idea that Abel
Grigg is not your father, sweet Kitty.  I confess that the same
thought has come to me, since seeing him.  Have you any coals inside?"

She stamped her foot, half in anger and half in dismay.

"Good lack, sir, will you not be gone?"

"Not until you fetch me a coal, at all events."

She looked at him, read determination in his face, and with an
impatient gesture ran to the cabin door and vanished inside.  After a
moment she appeared with a brand in her fingers, evidently pulled
from the fire inside.  Smiling, he took it and set it to his pipe.

"Ah, that is better!  Now, Kitty, as to your birth: Do you know
anything of your mother?"

He fully expected fresh expostulation from her; instead, she nodded
quietly.

"Yes, though I do not conceive your right to question me, sir."

"My right is the interest of a gentleman," he said gravely, and she
flushed.  "May I ask who your mother was?"

"I--I do not know her name," stammered the girl, helpless wonder in
her eyes.  "Her initials were H.E.M., but my father never speaks of
her."

"You mean, Abel Grigg never speaks of her," corrected Norton.  A new
anger flashed into the girl's face.

"Oh, you are insufferable!" she cried bitterly.  "I have tried to
help you, and your impertinent curiosity----"

"Nay, Kitty, it is only the interest of a gentleman, as I said
before," smiled Norton, "Still, you are right.  My curiosity is
impertinent, it may be, and if you were not the fairest maid I think
I have ever seen, perhaps my interest in you would be less.  Frankly,
I expect to return to this vicinity before a great while, and shall
look forward to seeing you again.  But tell me, please--how is it
that you know your mother's initials, but not her name?"

She looked at him for a long moment, divided between anger at his
cool insistence and comprehension of the iron will behind his gentle
courtesy.  Her hand went to her dress.

"Because of this.  It used to be my mother's, father has said----"

She laid a pin in his hand, and Norton stared down at it in rank
incredulity.  He turned it over and saw the graven initials on the
back, "H.E.M."  Then, reaching inside his buckskin coat, he brought
out its duplicate and laid it beside the other.  Both pins were
identical--a small golden eagle, with half-obliterated enamel.

"By thunder!" said Norton very softly, "Kitty, do you know what this
is?"

"No--a pin, that's all," she looked up at him, perplexed.  He turned
over his own pin, showing her the twined initials graven there,
"C.N.--E.D."

"This was my only legacy from my father," he continued slowly.  "Ask
Colonel Boone to tell you the story.  My father was Charles Norton,
my mother Eliza Darby--their initials, you see.  But how on earth did
you get yours?  It could not have belonged to your mother, unless
your father had given it her.  And if Abel Grigg was an officer in
the Revolution--then I'm a liar!"

"But what is it?" she queried, wide-eyed.  He came to her side,
pointing to the two little gold eagles, and explained:

"This broken enamel, here, showed Cincinnatus at the plough--the
Roman story, if you remember"--and she nodded to his words.  "The
motto was '_Omnia relinquit servare rempublicam_'.  Kitty, this eagle
is from the order of the Society of the Cincinnati, composed only of
Revolutionary officers and their eldest male descendants.  I am a
member, in virtue of my father's having been one before me--but how
on earth did you get this?  Does your father know what it is?"

"No, because I have asked him," she returned, excited interest in her
eyes.  "He says it is just a bauble--but please, please go now!  He
was here, and I'm afraid that--that----"

"Very well, Kitty."  And returning one of the eagles to her, he
replaced the other beneath his leathern shirt.  "Say nothing to him
of this, mind.  I'll investigate it when I return.  Farewell--and
remember, I'll come back sooner or later!"

He raised her hand to his lips, bowing, and turned to his horse.  He
scarcely remembered more than that he rode off with a wave of his
hand; his brain was in a wild riot of thought. It was a moral
certainty that Abel Grigg had no right to wear that golden eagle, and
in fact knew nothing about it--where, then, had Kathleen Grigg's
eagle come from?

"'Just a bauble,' eh?" muttered Norton, his lips tightening in anger.
"Friend Grigg, I would be pleased to have you repeat those words to
me! By thunder, you'd learn something about the Revolution in a
confounded hurry!"

And so he rode off into the wilderness, nor looked back to see the
girl gazing after him, hands at her breast.




CHAPTER V

Gradually, Norton's mind settled out of chaos into order.  The girl
was no daughter of Abel Grigg; so much was certain.  He felt a hot
anger at thought of her in the hands of such a man.  There was no
chance that Grigg had lied to her about the eagle, for his very use
of the term "just a bauble" showed Norton that the backwoodsman had
not known what it was.  No man who was a member of the Cincinnati but
reverenced the order and all it stood for, and whenever he thought of
those words Norton felt hot anger thrilling him.

Turning to his own situation, he dismissed the remembrance of Kitty
Grigg for the present.  Had her father overheard their conversation?
If so, there was a bare chance of finding trouble waiting near Blue
River.  He saw, however, that she had suggested the wisest course to
him.  Half an hour later, coming to a fork in the trail, he promptly
turned off to the south.

His best plan now lay in finding the man Red Hugh, of whom Boone had
spoken, and enlisting his services.  There might also be a messenger
at Dodd's Tavern, if Ayres kept his word.

Norton perceived very plainly that he had been neatly driven out of
Louisville as a fugitive, but he firmly intended to return
otherwise--for divers reasons.  If he was to detect the river-pirates
or whoever formed the band of Blacknose, he must do it by means of
scouting along the river.  It might require weeks and months of
arduous work and woods-living, and such a man as Red Hugh would prove
invaluable.  Were Boone right in his description of the man who slew
Indians--and Norton knew of too many such to doubt--this Red Hugh
would be more than apt to know all the river-haunts this side the
Mississippi.

"After all," he told himself cheerily, "things seem to have turned
out very well!  If Ayres does not forget his promises, we may yet
bring Blacknose to book."

He passed one or two scattered cabins that afternoon, shot a wild
turkey, and camped for the night beside a creek, in perfect content.
In case Grigg had not overheard his plan, he decided to let the man
think he had followed the Tennessee trail; he was not at all sure
that Duval and Grigg were not leagued against him, and knew better
than to trust in the lawyer's seeming apology.  Kitty's words rang in
his mind--"If Charles Duval gave you an apology, look to your steps!"

"She knew the breed all right," he reflected, the next morning.  "I
should have known better myself.  Well, now for the north and west!"

He made no effort to hide his camp.  As the creek ran north,
seemingly to the Ohio, he led his horse along its bed for a good
mile, picked hard ground for the emergence, and rode off, leaving a
carefully covered trail.  Even were he followed, his pursuers would
be a day or two later, he knew, so before noon he flung off all care
and rode on through the woods.

Another turkey and a small deer fell to his rifle that morning, after
which he wended his solitary way in peace, with meat and to spare.
Stopping at noon, he lighted a small fire and proceeded to smoke
enough of his fresh meat to last for a few days, as he was going on
to the river, where game was thinned out.  He had been following no
trail and had seen no one all that morning; the forest seemed
limitless and desolate, empty of all human life.

Norton, however, did not relax his vigilance.  While he was engaged
with his meat, he paused suddenly, caught up his rifle, and drew the
feather from the touch-hole.  He heard no sound, but he had a subtle
warning that someone was near; before he had unstopped his
powder-horn, the bushes opposite were flung aside and two Indians
appeared.

"How!"

They gazed at him, motionless, with only the single word of peace,
and Norton returned the stare with interest.  Both men were dressed
in beaded buckskin; both wore medals and carried Kentucky rifles, and
both were unpainted; the larger man was strikingly handsome, while
the other, who possessed but one eye, had a wild ferocity in his
features.

Without a word more, the larger man laid his rifle on the ground and
made an inquiring motion toward the meat.  Norton told them to help
themselves, and endeavoured to make them talk; but neither would say
a thing, save for a swift exchange of gutturals between themselves.

He watched them in no little interest as they ate, and came to the
conclusion that they were no ordinary warriors.  He knew little of
the northern tribes, but from the fact that the one-eyed man wore
moccasins of unmistakable Cherokee make, he guessed the two had been
on a trip to the south.  Having none of the Kentuckian's contempt for
the Indian, Norton went on about his work quietly though watchfully,
rather perplexed by the oddity of their silence.  Pouring fresh
powder into his pan, he set his rifle ready to hand, whereat he
thought the handsome Indian smiled a little.

When they had eaten the better half of his deer, they both drew out
small pipes of the precious calumet stone--a thing which in itself
marked them as men of rank.  Norton silently proffered them tobacco.
The handsome chieftain made the ceremonial of four puffs and handed
his pipe to Norton, who repeated it, thinking they would now talk.
In this he was mistaken.  The one-eyed man emitted a grunt as Norton
made the four puffs in Indian fashion to the four quarters of the
heavens, but that was all.  Although he ventured a question, neither
replied.

With that Norton gave a shrug, rose, and began tying his smoked meat
to his saddle.  He wished that he knew more about the northern
redskins, for these were certainly men of some importance, but his
experiences had been confined to Creek, Cherokee, and Seminole, while
these two were quite clearly of a different race--whether Shawnee,
Miami, Wyandot, or Ottawa he could not tell.

As he turned to pick up his rifle, the larger man rose and came
forward, smiling.  He reached forth an empty powder-horn, which was
finely carved, and indicated by signs that Norton was to give him
powder; it was not a demand, but a courteous request.  Norton, at
first inclined to anger, found himself suddenly impressed by this
unknown Indian; having plenty of powder himself, he at length
assented and poured a few charges into the empty horn.

At this, the Indian gravely proffered him a shilling--and Norton
noted that it was English money.  He was well aware that he was going
through a remarkable experience, there being little enough money in
the settlements themselves, to say nothing of Indians using it--a
thing unheard of.

"You're welcome," he smiled, waving back the coin.  "I don't wish
payment--you're quite welcome, though I don't suppose an Indian would
ever hand me out free powder."

Whether he was understood or not, he could not tell.  The one-eyed
man, still sitting over his pipe, grunted out something; the other
turned with swift anger in his face and poured forth a flood of
words.  Norton guessed shrewdly that the one-eyed man had expressed
entire willingness to give him free powder at any time--from the end
of a rifle.

Abruptly, the friendly chief turned to Norton again, and made signs
for the latter to remove his moccasins--at the same time unfastening
his own.  Puzzled, the Louisianian hesitated a moment and finally
obeyed, seeing that the other meant it.  Then the Indian held out his
moccasins--ankle-high, and elaborately beaded and quilled.  Norton
drew back, glancing at his own torn and stained and unbeaded pair,
which he had obtained from a Creek squaw on his way north.

"You mean to exchange with me?" he asked, wondering.  "No, I can't do
that, man!  Why, those moccasins of yours are magnificent!  Want to
sell them?"

A lightning flash of terrible anger shot into the swarthy features,
but was gone instantly.  Again the Indian nodded and held out his
moccasins.  Understanding that he was being paid in this fashion for
his hospitality, Norton reluctantly accepted, amazed that an Indian
should even think of payment.  When he had donned the new and
unusually fine pair of the Indian, he put out his hand--and met a
smiling refusal to shake.


Frowning, he turned to his horse and mounted.  As he rode away, his
friend sent him a wave of the hand; then he splashed across the
shallow creek near his camp, and the strange pair of redskins were
lost behind him.  It was odd, undoubtedly; that refusal to shake
hands had been a very manly way of saying they were enemies, yet he
knew there was no Indian war going on at present.

Unable to account for the whole experience, he dismissed it from his
mind.  It was one of the weird silent happenings which the wilderness
holds in store for those who penetrate her fastnesses; strange
things, memories which remain for ever, yet which may never react
upon the future, the ebb and flow of Dead Sea tides leaving nothing
upon the shores of life save the brine of wasted energy.  Had John
Norton known who his two guests were, however, he might not have
considered the incident closed, so far as he himself was concerned.
To them, indeed, it might well prove a momentary thing.

So he dismissed it lightly enough, and looked ahead.  As he sat by
his campfire that night and considered his situation, he found it
good.  He was to seek a certain unnamed settlement on the Indian
shore, twelve miles this side of the Blue River, and on the Kentucky
side would find Red Hugh; then on to Blue River, Dodd's tavern, and
the messenger from Ayres.  That afternoon he had seen the river hills
to the north; so by keeping due west, getting off early, and pushing
hard, he might find Red Hugh's cabin by the next night.  He must have
come a good twenty miles, he considered, of the forty-five lying
between Louisville and his destination, for all that he had taken a
circuitous course.

Before sunrise he was up and on his way again.  Two hours later he
drew up on a rising knoll amid the hills, and saw the signal-fire of
Destiny awaiting him.

It was a spiral of blue smoke, ascending from the valley beyond, and
perhaps a mile away.  Norton sat watching it for a moment; to his
trained eye it showed a fire of green wood, too small for a careless
settler's building, too large for that of Indian or backwoodsman.

Since his meeting with the two redskins, Norton had regained his
caution.  He knew that the Kentucky woods were filled with
adventurers and peculiar individuals of all descriptions, to say
nothing of Indians who might or might not be hostile.  So, having
made certain that there were no settlers' cabins in the vicinity, he
dismounted and went forward on foot.  His horse, an Indian pony he
had bought at Fort Massac, followed at a little distance behind him,
treading almost as silently as did Norton himself.

After proceeding some distance, he tied the beast to a tree and went
on more cautiously still, for that fire interested him.  It was
evidently built by someone who feared nothing in the woods, yet was a
stranger to woods' ways, and Norton thought for a fleeting instant
that he might have chanced upon the retreat of Blacknose.  With his
rifle ready loaded and primed, he stole forward, using all his
woodcraft.

But his all was not enough, it proved.  While he was crossing a
thickly overgrown hollow, he flushed up two cardinals from a
canebrake just ahead, and as the birds went up Norton realized that
his cunning had been in vain.  He was just about to plunge into the
high canebrake when the tall yellowish stalks were brushed aside to
disclose a figure of nearly his own height, and a white man stepped
forth.

For a moment the two men stared at each other in mutual surprise and
admiration, for both were striking in looks--Norton in his capable,
alert, piercing-eyed way, the stranger in sheer manly beauty.  He was
an inch shorter than Norton, was this stranger who had risen from the
midst of the cane; the effeminacy of the long hair curling over his
shoulders was at once offset by a strong nose, large mouth, and
square chin, and very large, deep-set, commanding dark eyes.

Norton was startled by the appearance of this man, who seemed not of
the woods and yet a woodsman.  He wore a magnificent ruffled shirt of
finest French linen, flung open at the throat to display a neck as
bronzed as Norton's own; his coat and knee-breeches were of black
satin, his knee-high moccasins of rude home make; a watch fob-ribbon
hung on one side of his belt, a powder-horn and hunting-knife
opposite.  Over one ear was stuck a long crayon, while in his hand he
held a thin board with paper fastened to it.

"_Parbleu_!" exclaimed the stranger, then continued instantly in
excellent English, staring hard at Norton: "Your coming was most
unfortunate, sir!  You frightened away the finest specimen of
Kentucky cardinal I have seen this year!"

"Accept my apologies, monsieur," smiled Norton, speaking in French.
"You are a Frenchman, then?"

"I?  Not at all!" cried the other.  "I was born in Louisiana,
removing later to France, but this is my country.  Who are you, sir,
who speak French so excellently in this wilderness?  Do you come from
the French Grant up-river?"

"No, I gained that language in New Orleans," returned Norton,
wondering greatly who this eccentric stranger might be.  "I regret
having frightened away your bird--I trust you did not anticipate
dining upon him?"

The other looked bewildered.

"Eh?  Dining?  Do you eat such birds, sir?"

"Heavens, no!"  And Norton laughed despite himself.  "But what else
could you want of him?"

The stranger broke into a frank laughter; so winning and direct was
his whole attitude that the puzzled Norton felt an odd liking for the
man.

"It seems we were both mistaken then!  I was limning the bird--but
come to the higher ground in here.  Did you ever see a cardinal's
nest?"

"I never looked for one," returned Norton curtly.  He followed to a
small patch of drier ground in the centre of the cane-brake, and the
stranger eagerly pointed to a nest in the branches of a young
cottonwood, to one side.

"Sit down--stay quiet!" commanded the other quickly.  "They will
return in a half-hour, sir----"

"Then I'll be on my way," broke in Norton drily, "for I have other
business than watching birds, sir."

He turned, when the stranger set down the paper and board, on which
only a few sketchy lines were visible, and caught at his arm.

"Pardon, sir--one moment!  Are you lately from Louisiana?  Do you
know that country well?"

"I've lived there all my life, practically," said Norton.  "Why?"

"Well"--and the other seemed to forget his birds temporarily--"I was
but a child when I went to France, and last year I heard a monstrous
strange story of Upper Louisiana, which I have never been able to
authenticate.  I met one of the men who had been on Colonel Burr's
ill-fated expedition, and he assured me that on the banks of the
Missouri there is a mountain of salt----"

"Travellers' tales," laughed Norton, but the other continued quickly:

"Wait, sir!  He also stated very decidedly that had Colonel Burr
succeeded in his venture, he would have been joined by a great tribe
of Indians.  This tribe inhabit a country of some nine hundred square
miles, around the salt mountain, fight always on horseback, and are
armed with the short Spanish carbines----"

"My dear sir," inquired Norton in frank wonder, "are you in earnest?"

"Of course I am!" And indeed there was no mistaking the eager
interest of the stranger's handsome face.  "I am a student of
ornithology, sir--that is, I pursue the study in my spare time--but I
am also keenly interested in such matters of ethnology, and if you
could enlighten me as to this Indian tribe, I would appreciate it.
You seem a person of no little refinement and culture----"

"Thank you," laughed Norton heartily.  "Well, sir, I can assure you
that this tale is a myth in all its branches, is not worthy of
credence, and your informant was wholly wrong.  I trust that is
sweeping enough.  Now, as I am in some haste, I will leave you to
your birds and pursue my way.  Do you know how far I am from the Blue
River?"

"I do not, sir"--and the frank eyes twinkled at him.  "I have been in
camp here for a week past, watching this pair of birds at work.
Fortunately my sketches are completed, but my provisions are gone,
and I have lost my spare flints and cannot shoot.  How say you--shall
we seek the Blue River together, sir, and become gentleman
adventurers through the wilderness?"

Something in the merry, careless, wholly engaging manner of this man
made the Louisianian warm toward him.  He could not mistrust that
frank, sturdy, piercing-eyed face; here was a man in whom there was
no guile, and almost involuntarily Norton struck his hand into that
of the other.

"Done!" he laughed happily.  "By thunder, sir.  I like you!  Hold on,
though."  He paused in dismay as a sudden thought struck him.  "I
must refuse your company, sir, for your own good.  I am in some
danger, and if you travelled with me it might turn out badly all
around."

"Danger?"  And when the other frowned Norton discovered a strange
quality of power in the strong face.  "Do not tell me you are a
criminal."

"I'm not."  Norton hesitated, in some embarrassment.  Another steady
look from the deep-set eyes of the stranger, and he concluded
suddenly to open his heart to this man, to whom he felt so greatly
drawn.  "Frankly, sir, I am in Kentucky for the purpose of rooting
out a gang of river pirates known as Blacknose's gang.  Their
organization has discovered my purpose, and----"

"Oh, is that all!"  And the other laughed, passed his arm through
Norton's, and gently urged him through the canes ahead.  "Nonsense,
friend!  _En avant_!"

"I guess you don't know much about that gang," grunted Norton.

"Well, I ought to," retorted the other drily.  "Last year I lost a
dozen hogsheads of the finest tobacco, some prime ginseng cured in
Canton fashion, and a good load of flax!  I know them, and appreciate
your danger.  I am with you, sir, and with all my heart--there's the
hand of John Audubon on it!"

"Audubon!" repeated Norton, his eyes kindling.  "Why, I met your
partner at Louisville--"  He halted abruptly.

"And I'll wager that Rosier told you I was touched in the head, eh?"
Audubon broke into a peal of ringing laughter.  "Every man to his
trade!  Rosier cannot understand why I will not settle down behind
the counter and make money.  Nay, but I cannot!  Now come along--here
is my camp."

Norton followed into a small glade of cottonwoods, where a horse
grazed beside a rudely erected brush shelter.  He remembered that
Rosier had said his partner was touched in the head, but he did not
need to remember what else Rosier had said.  He knew already that he
could trust John Audubon--in fact, he felt that he could more than
trust him.




CHAPTER VI

Within an hour the two men had become firm friends.  They were alike
only in the saving grace of humour, for Audubon had been trained in a
gentler school than Norton.  The latter was amazed to find that his
new comrade, as Rosier had said, left his family and business at
Louisville, in order to spend weeks in the woods; yet when Norton saw
the drawings and sketches of birds which Audubon proudly displayed,
he was forced to confess that the long weeks had borne fruit.

"I can't see what use they are, except to science," he said ruefully,
"but I presume you get out of them the same keen satisfaction that I
get out of a trail well blazed or a hunt well finished."

"Exactly," laughed the other.  "But enough of this.  Tell me about
Blacknose."

Norton did so, relating all that had happened to him since his
eventful arrival at the Taylor farm.  Audubon listened in keen
interest, stroking his long powerful chin but saying nothing.  When
Norton had made an end, the naturalist--for this, and not
shopkeeping, was his real profession--quietly bundled up his drawings
in a portfolio.  He arranged them neatly and in precision, and not
until he had buckled the last buckle did he break the silence which
had fallen.  Then his eyes clenched on the keen sword-gaze of Norton,
and he smiled.

"I will go with you.  My wife is with General Clark, and need fear
nothing; I myself am accounted as a little crazed, so no man would
hurt me.  But let them wait!  The day is coming when this country of
ours shall take her rightful place among the nations who sit at the
feet of science!  Look at our bison and elk, our countless new
species of every bird and animal----"

He broke off suddenly, laughed at his own hot enthusiasm, and
continued.

"But, sir, your pardon.  You are a soldier, and I am not--but in
truth I have served in the navy of France, so let us demolish these
river pirates together.  Poor Rosier would scarce credit me joining
you, I fear!"

Norton smiled.  He liked this animated, vivacious, strong young
fellow immensely, and was far too well educated to share in the
prejudices of the Kentuckians against him.  Audubon had been in
Louisville only a few months, his life having alternated between
France and America, but his business venture with Rosier had been
sadly crippled by the activity of the river pirates, and also by his
own indifference.  He did not lack energy for any pursuit which
attracted him, however, and flung himself into Norton's problem with
a whole-hearted enthusiasm which delighted the Louisianian.

The latter went over each point, from the description of the would-be
assassin to his last meeting with Duval and Grigg.  On this last,
Audubon managed to throw some faint light.

"Grigg was accused of horse-theft this spring," he said thoughtfully.
"He was even had up in court, but Duval defended him most ably, and
had him acquitted.  I have often seen them together, too.  This
fellow Duval is a most able lawyer, Norton; he is said to be a second
Hercules in strength, and seems to have plenty of money.  So you met
the famous Colonel Boone, eh?  I hope for that pleasure some day; he
is a famous man, a famous man!"

Norton tried to elicit some information about the two mysterious
Indians whom he had met, but Audubon merely shook his head, knowing
nothing of the redskins and caring less.

"As to this river piracy, one of our merchants, a Mr. Tarascon, last
year tried to capture the men.  His hogsheads of tobacco were
privately marked in a certain place, and after losing two cargoes he
had all the river captains watching for them.  One Captain
Brookfield, who runs a horse-power barque of forty tons, stated later
that he had received a number of hogsheads from a settler at Blue
River.  He believed them to be the ones in question, but the private
mark had been branded over very cleverly.  So that plan came to
nothing."

"At least," exclaimed Norton eagerly, "it would go to show that the
Tarascon boats were looted between Louisville and Blue River, eh?  Of
course, others have vanished at different points; a band of pirates
with confederates on the boats would not be so foolish as to commit
all their piracies at one spot, especially after what happened to the
Mason and Harpe gang through just such work.  Well, I believe we can
do no better than to seek this man, Red Hugh--if indeed you are
willing to incur the risk of helping me."

"Do you wish me?"  Audubon looked at him calmly.  "I do not want to
intrude----"

"Why man," and Norton laughed in sheer happiness until his brown face
lost all its cold grimness and expressed only eager delight--"when I
left Louisville I wished that one of two men were with me--one of
them Daniel Boone, the other a younger frontiersman named Crockett,
whom I know well.  Now I extend that to a third, and the third is
named Audubon; I think, perhaps, that I would sooner have this same
Mr. Audubon than either of the other two!  You are a man, sir."

Audubon put out his hand, and Norton gripped it, eye to eye.

"And you," returned the other slowly, "are--well, that compliment
gains its whole value, sir, in coming from you.  I can say no more."

It was enough, and with a song in his heart Norton returned to get
his horse, while Audubon gathered his scattered belongings and made
ready to depart.  The bird-lover had a small double-barrelled rifle
which he had bought in Philadelphia some years before, and when he
had replenished his stock of ammunition from Norton's store, the two
set forth.

They were a strange pair--Audubon in his black satin and French
shirt, Norton in his buckskin and magnificent moccasins.  Both were
well versed in threading wilderness pathways, however, and it was no
great task to find the Ohio.  Late that afternoon they pushed their
horses to the brow of a small hill, and saw the great river lying
before them.  The hills, which drew close to the Ohio at Blue River,
were some distance back from the banks at this point, dense patches
of canebrake appearing along the lower ground.  The summer heat had
thoroughly dried out the canes, and at sight of the yellow-brown
patches Norton nodded.

"I rode along the Indiana shore from Fort Massac to Louisville," he
said, "and remember seeing these canebrakes from across the river.
We're almost opposite a little settlement called Doe Run----"

"Yes," added the other quickly, "and we are some eight miles from the
spot indicated to you by Boone.  I went down-river to Henderson last
month and remember seeing that rocky cliff on the Indiana shore.
What think you--shall we press on and find your Red Hugh to-night, or
wait till morning?"

Norton decided to camp where they were.  The afternoon was far gone;
there were no settlements on the Kentucky shore, and they would stand
little chance of finding Red Hugh's cabin at night.  So he went on
with the horses, while Audubon went after meat; by the time Norton
had made camp on a small hillock of dry ground among the canebrakes,
his companion came in with a wild turkey and news that a storm seemed
coming up from the south.

When darkness came down and their bird was cooking, Audubon's
prediction was justified by a shrill whispering of the canes as the
wind stirred them.  A brush shelter was soon thrown up, however, and
the two men settled down in comfort, regardless of the weather.

Norton found that his companion agreed with him on the course to be
pursued.  Leaving Ayres out of the case, they could do nothing but
scout along the river shores, and with the help of Red Hugh might
hope to accomplish something.  This settled, the horses were picketed
and Norton fell asleep to the rustling of the canes and the soughing
of the wind in the cot ton woods.

He wakened once, to find the fire burned out, the sky overcast, and a
stiff gale sweeping over the valley.  No rain had fallen, however,
and despite the uneasy feeling that should have warned him, Norton
slept once more.


When he was roused again, it was by a shrill scream from a horse,
followed almost instantly by a rush of feet and a volley of shots.
Norton was on his feet at once, with a shout to his companion;
Audubon was already up, however, as his voice testified.

"The cane's afire, Norton!  A spark must have caught it----"

"Sparks don't fly against the wind," grunted Norton.

They stood silent, dismayed by the spectacle around them and by the
truth of Norton's remark.  Dawn had come up; the high wind from the
south was still blowing, and the canebrake was afire along the edge
of the higher ground behind them.  The two horses had disappeared,
frightened by the veil of smoke drifting over the camp.

"Had the canes been afire along the river below," went on Norton
grimly, "we could lay it to our own fire.  But this seems to me the
work of other hands, Audubon.  The canes have been fired at a dozen
places----"

"Then we had best lose no time getting out of here," cried the other.
"Hello!  Where's my rifle?"

"Gone, with mine," Norton grunted angrily as he realized what had
occurred.  "The enemy has trapped us and----"

"What?  You mean----"

"Blacknose," nodded Norton, pale to the lips.  "No use trying to
break through that line of fire, because we're hemmed in all round."

Audubon stared blankly at him, cursed, then turned his eyes to the
fire-sweep.  Both men were quite well aware of their position.  An
enemy had removed their rifles and freed their horses, and the fire
would do the rest.

The thirty-foot canes were blazing fiercely, the drifted smoke and
flames completely cutting off all egress by the neck of higher ground
through which the two had entered toward the shore.  As the fire took
hold, the explosions of water in the cane-joints became continuous;
so loud were they that Norton could not but imagine himself in the
midst of a battle.  Audubon stared at the spectacle, awe-struck, for
the flames and smoke were rising high; he already held his precious
portfolio, seeming to care for nothing else.

The two men were soon aroused to their danger, however.  Across the
little opening on which they stood slipped an immense rattlesnake,
followed quickly by a rush of rabbits; from one side came a
tremendous crashing amid the canes, and by the lurid glare which
paled the growing daylight, Norton made out the form of a bear
crushing his way in panic toward the river.

"Come on," he cried hastily, turning.  "Our only hope is the river,
Audubon!  If we can splash through the shallows beyond the edge of
the fire, we'll be safe."

"Lead the way, then," returned the other calmly.  "Good God, what a
sight!"

His leathern shirt already hot against his skin, Norton turned and
plunged to where the bear was still crashing through the canes.  The
river was a hundred yards away, and so thick were the high canes that
to force a passage was impossible; their only hope lay in following
the course of the frightened bear.  With hot anger raging in him
against the fiends who had laid this trap, and with quick realization
that Audubon's shot at the turkey the previous evening must have
drawn their foes upon them, Norton dashed forward into the muck.

It was high time, for the nearer canes were already being fired by
sparks.  On every side the explosions were crashing out while small
animals scurried past in blind panic.  A moment later the two friends
gained the shore, however, and as they did so a canoe appeared a
dozen feet away, paddled by a single man.

"Help!" cried Norton eagerly.  "Come in here and get us off, friend!"

The canoe was drifting slowly, and even as the two plunged out into
the shallow water, they were halted abruptly.  The high brake around
them shut out the glare from behind, and by the rapidly increasingly
daylight they saw that the single occupant of the canoe was covering
them with a rifle.

"Hold on, thar!" he cried hoarsely.  "This gun's primed!"

And Norton recognized Audubon's double-barrelled rifle.  There was
now no doubt as to the identity of the canoeist--it was he who had
thieved their rifles and set the cane-brake afire.

"You'll pay for this work," exclaimed Norton, trying to repress his
rage.  His hand went to his belt.  Audubon, also realizing at once
who the man was, took a forward step.

"Come on, Norton--wade around the brake----"

"Stop!"  The man in the canoe levelled the rifle full at them; he was
barely three yards away, and an eddy of the stream floated the canoe
around.  "You-all ain't in no danger.  This here's a warnin' to git.
They's a flatboat comin' around the bend--swim out an' git took off;
stay on her clar to Saint Looey, an' keep out o' this country,
you"--and Norton perceived that the remarks were addressed to him.

He also perceived something else.  The man was holding the rifle at
his left shoulder; he was bearded, wore a buckskin coat and a cap of
fox, with the brush hanging over his back.  Norton started suddenly.
He had no need to see powder-horn or moccasins.

"So you're completing your work, eh?" he cried savagely.  "You're the
man who shot at me on the Beargrass Creek road the other day, eh?"

The villainous face of the man contracted.

"Ain't no 'lasses sticking to your feet, is they?" he jeered.  "Right
ye are, pardner.  Now, you-all git aboard that flatboat an' stay
thar, see?"

Norton thought swiftly, his hand closing on the hatchet in his belt.
This was one of the Blacknose gang, beyond a doubt, and was the man
whom Ayres had seen talking with Duval.  Was it possible that----

"Who hired you for this dirty work?" he demanded swiftly.  "Tell me
who Blacknose is, and I'll give you five hundred dollars--"

"Git out an' swim, ye cussed spy," snarled the man evilly.  "I ain't
goin' to miss ye next time----"


Norton, who had drawn his hand behind him, flicked forward his wrist
in an underhand throw, having no chance to raise the tomahawk.  Even
as the steel flamed out, the man caught the motion and fired; Norton
flung himself forward, felt a hot sear of pain across his head, and
plunged bodily on the canoe.

It was a desperate expedient, but Norton was too hot with anger to
care for possibilities.  Before the man could fire his second barrel,
Norton's weight sent the canoe over backward; he went with it, felt
himself grappled, and had a brief glimpse of Audubon leaping at the
canoe as he went under.

The water was little more than knee-deep, but Norton felt something
sting at his shoulder and knew his opponent had a knife out.
Smashing down with his fist through the smother, he tried to free
himself of the hand at his throat, but vainly.  Already wounded, he
felt a terrible weakness stealing over him, and the water choked his
lungs.  His fingers closed on a wrist, and he gripped it desperately
as he struggled up to get his head above the water.

In this he succeeded, pulling his opponent with him, and for a moment
the two men stood breast to breast.  The riverman fought with an
appalling savagery, snarling like a beast, and Norton knew his case
was desperate.  Blood blinded him: the hand about his throat drew
tighter; and with only his right hand holding off the menacing knife,
he put down his left hand to his belt in a last desperate effort.

The other saw his object, but could not prevent it without loosing
his hold on Norton's throat.  Snarling again, he threw himself
forward; Norton was not braced against the move, and went over
backward into the water.  It was life or death now, and the
Louisianian knew it.  Jerking his own knife free, he lashed out
frantically.  The blade drove home, but he pulled it free and struck,
again and again.

Wounded, throttled, choked with mud and water, Norton felt himself
loosed from that terrible death-grapple.  He tried weakly to lift
himself erect, but could only raise his head from the water, sobbing
in the smoke-laden air, while burning cane-flakes fell all around.
He could see nothing, but felt hands lifting him and heard the voice
of Audubon in his ear.  The words sounded faint and very far away.

Norton was by no means unconscious, but he was weak and nauseated and
half-drowned.  He was well assured that never again would he have to
seek a left-handed man with red-streaked powder-horn.  He needed no
glimpse of the horror-struck visage of Audubon to tell him that their
enemy would fire no more canebrakes.

He felt Audubon bundle him over the side of the canoe, with much
difficulty, but was too weak to offer any assistance.  Then Audubon
himself climbed aboard and began to paddle the craft out into the
river.  Norton lay in the grip of a deadly coma until a burning flake
settled on his back and aroused him as it ate through his leather
shirt.  He rolled over, quenched the burning in the water that
half-filled the canoe, and sat up.

Clutching at the gunnels, he stared about.  Behind was the roaring
mass of flame which had so nearly swallowed them, and they were
already in the swift current of the stream.  The river made a sharp
bend just above them, toward which the smoke was drifting; they had
already swept out of the murk, and Norton saw a flatboat floating
down-river, half a mile away.

Setting his teeth against the giddiness swirling over him, he reached
down and grasped a paddle.  At his feet were the rifles; Audubon must
have recovered them, then.  As he got his paddle over the side,
Audubon looked around with a ghastly smile.

"All right, Norton?"

"Right enough.  Keep her going."

Little by little he conquered himself.  He was very weak, but as they
neared the flatboat he managed to wave his paddle.  The crew of the
boat were lined up with rifles, but as Audubon stood up, at some risk
to the canoe, they recognized his figure and got out their sweeps.
Five minutes later they were alongside, and Norton fainted.




CHAPTER VII

Sitting on a big tobacco hogshead and watching the Indiana shore,
with Audubon standing gloomily at his side, Norton felt his bandaged
head tenderly and considered what was to be done.

"I saved the canoe from going under," said Audubon, "then rescued the
rifles.  I could give you no help until I saw your head come up.  By
the way, this was in the canoe."

He held out a powder-horn--mottled, with a streak of red running
through it.  Norton stared down at it, then with a grim laugh reached
into the coat which hung in the sun with his other clothes, and drew
out the stopper Boone had found on the Beargrass Creek road that
morning.  The plug slipped deftly into place; the horn matched
perfectly.

"Well, so much for an assassin," he said grimly.  "Now that you've
had your initial taste of the work our foemen do, have you lost taste
for the enterprise?"

"Not unless the enterprise has lost taste for me," laughed Audubon,
with a glance around.  The crew of the flatboat were safe out of
hearing.  "I told our friends here that we had set fire to the canes
ourselves, by accident----"

"Good.  Am I badly hurt?  Where are we?"

"You should have care; the bullet scraped along your skull, and you
have a knife-gash in the side.  We have just passed Buck Creek, and
the rocky cliff for which we were making lies about three miles
downstream.  Best let Red Hugh pass, go to the Blue River settlement,
and wait there until you are recovered."

Norton made no other reply than to reach for his half-dried clothes.
The other looked at him, his fine face wrinkled into a frown of
anxiety.

"It's rank madness, Norton!" he said quietly.  "You're scarce able to
walk, and are like to suffer----"

"I am going to find Red Hugh, if I die the next hour."

Norton finished drawing on the fine-beaded moccasins, slipped the
red-streaked horn over his shoulder by its thong, and looked at his
comrade.  He felt shaky indeed, but so clearly did his whole manner
evince the iron determination within him, that Audubon shook his head
resignedly and turned to his own garments.

"The canoe is towing astern," he said simply.

Norton reached for his buckskin shirt, and staggered under a swirl of
pain and weakness.  Instantly the other was at his side, with a rush
of protestation against trying to leave the hospitable flatboat.

"I am going to find Red Hugh," said Norton doggedly, and resumed his
dressing as his head cleared.

They were slipping down the stream fast.  Already the high cliff
mentioned by Boone as a landmark was in sight, far ahead, and Audubon
departed to find the captain.  The latter readily assented to take
the flatboat in close to the Kentucky shore, and sent his crew to the
sweeps.  The boat was going through to St. Louis, and her captain
carried some freight for Audubon, so that the latter met with prompt
obedience.

Meanwhile, Norton sat in the sun and wiped the wet rifles
mechanically.  Every trace of the storm had vanished and the morning
was coming up splendid in summer warmth.  Norton knew they were in a
grave situation, however, and said as much when his comrade rejoined
him.

The man whose canoe they now held had undoubtedly been one of the
Blacknose gang, and Norton strongly believed he had been one of a
cordon of spies stretched at intervals along the river.  Were this
the case, the conflagration would be noticed, the man's body might be
found, and the gang would waste no more warnings.  Norton's one hope
lay in getting ashore unobserved, pre-supposing the river to be
watched; if the flatboat ran in close to the wooded Kentucky shore,
he and Audubon might land unobserved by anyone who watched from a
distance.  The river seemed deserted, save for the distantly smoking
canebrake far behind.  Whether there were any Blacknose spies aboard
the flatboat could not be told.

So, with fresh ammunition and weapons and with rifles well-oiled,
Norton and Audubon stood in the bow as the ungainly flatboat swept
into an eddy and approached the well-wooded bank.  On the opposite
shore, the rocky cliff with its cabin below was still a trifle
down-stream; above them rose a bluff, a solid mass of virgin timber
that stretched through to Tennessee with cabins scattered in its
depths.  Save at Henderson and Louisville, the Kentucky shore was
poorly settled as yet, Shawnee raids from the Wabash having
discouraged too ambitious families.

The boat swept in to the bank, almost underneath a huge cottonwood,
and with a hasty farewell to the river-captain, the two men leaped
ashore and lost no time in reaching the summit of the bluff.

It was a harder task than it looked, however, and a good twenty
minutes had passed when at length the two panting men gained the
crest of the bluff and paused to rest.  Norton knew he was in bad
shape and conjectured that malaria had touched him, for the uncleared
lands along the Ohio were notorious in this respect.  With all his
stubborn will set upon reaching Red Hugh, he tightened his lips and
said nothing to Audubon of his reeling senses and disordered vision.

The flatboat was already far on her way to Henderson, once more
hugging the Indiana shore.  Norton motioned Audubon to lead the way,
and in five minutes they struck upon a faint trail which ran along
the crest of the bluffs.

"Well, the Indians had their uses after all," sighed Audubon, as they
came upon it.  "Whew!  That was a stiff climb, Norton!  Now where is
this blazed tree of yours?"

Norton collected himself into coherency.

"Directly opposite that cliff on the Indiana shore--a big cottonwood,
blazed north and south.  We head straight south from it to reach Red
Hugh's cabin."

"Well, we're not opposite that cliff yet.  Come along!"

The trail ascended the bluff-crest toward a knoll which topped it.
Norton caught himself staggering more than once; his wounds throbbed
and ached, and his brain seemed on fire.  None the less, he knew he
was in no mortal danger, and was filled with a grim satisfaction over
the events of that morning.

"There's no telling how many rivermen that fellow has murdered," he
thought to himself, "and he tried his bloody work once too often.  So
that's one snake out of our path!  If the current only swept his body
away, our friend Blacknose will be in a pretty wonder as to what
became of him."

The trail was steeper now, and he clambered up painfully after
Audubon.  At last, fearing lest his senses slip away altogether, he
sank down on a huge root.

"Do you look for the tree," he said as the other turned.  "I must
rest a moment."

With an anxious glance at his white face, Audubon nodded and broke
into the trees, for they were already on the knoll.  Norton leaned
back, faint and giddy, and as his eyes fell on the trail he noted
idly that it was hard rocky soil, indented with the unmistakable
marks of horseshoes.  In his present state of mind this conveyed
nothing to him; a settler might have passed along by the trail, or
any wandering pedlar might have made the tracks.

He leaned back and closed his eyes, utterly relaxing himself and
grateful for the brief rest.  He seemed to ache all over, and for
almost the first time in His life his whole body seemed wearied and
fatigued.  A strange lassitude had come over him.

"Norton!"

At the excited whisper he opened his eyes and sat up, to see Audubon
peering through the bushes, finger on lip.  The other beckoned
hastily.

"Come in here!  Be cautious."


Already refreshed by his rest, Norton crept into the bushes.
Audubon's excited eagerness put him on the alert at once, and he
stole after the other with all the silent care of an Indian.
Reaching a densely overgrown covert, Audubon paused and held up a
hand, listening.  From above there came a low trilling bird-song, but
Norton could make out nothing else.

"What is it, man?  What did you find?"

"Listen!" whispered Audubon softly.  "Isn't it like a goldfinch
singing under its breath?  The same little trills, the same sustained
sweet notes in between--but it's a vireo, Norton!  Would you guess
it?"

Norton stared, but his friend was in deadly earnest.  He heard the
hidden bird change its song suddenly, and Audubon gripped his arm
hard.

"There--that's the real vireo song, with the pulse-like, clear-cut
notes!  Did you ever hear such a thing before?  That bird was giving
a real goldfinch trill, man----"

"Where's the cottonwood?" broke in Norton drily.  The other looked at
him, his face blank on a sudden.

"Why--why--I clear forgot----"

Norton laughed, but Audubon suddenly gripped his arm harder.  The
bird above had broken off in mid-song, for no apparent reason.  From
somewhere outside the covert came the rattle of a stone, followed by
a horse's snort.

"Keep quiet," breathed Norton, looking into the deep eyes of his
friend.  "Someone's on the trail."

Audubon nodded, and the two men stood tense and motionless, every
nerve on edge.  With startling abruptness there came a deep curse
from the trail.

"Damn it, pull up!  I ain't no Injun!"

There followed a chuckle in another voice--one that sent Norton's
hand to his rifle.

"Winded, Abel?  Well, there's no haste.  What did that boat put in
for?"

"How'n tarnation do I know?" growled the first.  "Wa'n't none o' our
boys on her."

"So much the better for her, then," laughed the second.  "It's odd we
didn't meet Tobin, Abel!"

A grunt replied.  Norton glanced at his friend, his brown eyes aflame.

"Duval," he murmured under his breath.  "Who's the other?  Abel
Grigg?"

Audubon nodded quickly, and his face was set in eager surmise.

"Is Tobin the man we--we met this morning, Norton?"

Norton pursed up his lips in a silent whistle, staring.  Was the
thing possible after all?  He had vaguely suspected it before, yet it
seemed incredible.  He replied to the question with a mute shake of
the head, as Duval's voice continued.  It seemed that Duval and Grigg
were pausing for breath on the trail opposite the covert.

"Listen here, Abel: this thing has to be finished up sharp, or that
fool is apt to blunder on something that'll bring the Regulators down
on us."  Duval's voice was earnest, cold, menacing.  "He got away
from the boys at Louisville, and unless Tobin has met him and is
attending to him, you'll have to do the work.  I'll be busy in court
at Henderson for a week to come."

"I'll 'tend to him," growled Grigg.  "How 'bout layin' fer that cargo
comin' down nex' month in Cap. Brookfield's hoss-boat?  We could ship
a couple o' the boys on her an' do the business by them islands at
the Wabash."

"Not so bad," returned Duval.  "Lay it to a bunch of Shawnees, eh?"

"Sure.  That feller Tecumsey and his brother, the Prophet, is raisin'
hell all through the tribes, Duval, an' they's goin' to be a blow-up
mighty sudden on the border.  Now looky here.  If you're a-goin' on
to Henderson, I'll leave ye here an' go to meet the boys, so I want
to settle this business of ourn.  How much you goin' to turn over fer
the gal, eh?"

"I've told you before, Abel, that I'll give you five hundred cash and
what stuff we've got in the cache.  Take it or leave it."

"Well, that 'baccy in the cache will fetch about two hundred at Saint
Looey, eh?  Then we got that flax out o' the last boat, an' them ten
kegs o' 'lasses--all right.  You see to makin' out the papers an'
I'll sign 'em.  The gal won't consent, mebbe, but I'll swear she
ain't of age.  You got to have a preacher weddin', though."

"Of course, you fool!"  And there was an exasperated note in Duval's
voice.  "Haven't I said I wanted to marry her?  But you've got to
clear out, understand--go to New Orleans or Saint Louis, I don't care
which, and stay."

"I'll do that, all right.  Well, see ye at Henderson."

"Take care of that spy, mind!" called Duval.  Only silence ensued.
Then came a faint thud of hoofs, and again silence.

Norton and Audubon stared at each other.  The former had forgotten
his illness in his high excitement, for now he knew beyond a doubt
that fate had given over his enemy into his hand.

"By thunder!" he ejaculated slowly.  "Audubon, we've got the whole
game on the table before us!  The mysterious Blacknose is Abel Grigg,
and Duval is in league with him--is probably the brains of the
organization.  The black-hearted scoundrel!  When we tell what we've
just heard now----"

"Who'll believe us?" broke in Audubon gravely, and shook his head.
"It won't do, Norton!  Duval is too prominent a man to be smashed
without clear evidence.  Besides, we wouldn't break up the gang by
nabbing him and Grigg alone.  Depend upon it, we could do little
against that clever villain without more evidence than those words.
But what a blackguard he is--to be robbing his own townsmen!"

"And that girl--Grigg's daughter!" broke in Norton, a flame of rage
sweeping through him.  "Did you hear them?  He's buying the girl,
Audubon--buying her!  Damn it, man, did you ever see that girl?"

Audubon gazed at him, astonished at the outburst.

"Yes," he replied slowly, "I've seen her once or twice in the store.
Do you think that's really what they meant?  Why, it can't be
possible, Norton!"

None the less, Norton knew that the thing was true.  He drew a deep
breath as the full realization of his triumph broke over his mind.
By a stroke of sheer luck he had solved the mystery of Blacknose--but
was it luck?  Had not one thing led to another in marvellous
sequence--the cane-brake, the fire, the flatboat, the landing, and
finally the vireo singing the song of a goldfinch?  Surely, there was
more than luck in all this!


A new burst of rage came into his heart at thought of Kitty Grigg,
however.  So this evil-hoary old backwoodsman who was not her father
was planning to sell her to Duval!  Norton inwardly vowed that such a
sale should never be consummated.  He remembered the girl as he had
last seen her by the cabin, glorious in her unstained beauty and her
fine clear poise--and groaned.  With a sudden movement he reached
inside his shirt and took out the little gold eagle still pinned to
it.

"Audubon," he cried earnestly, "I swear by this emblem, which stands
for the things I hold dearest--my country, and my father's
memory--that before Duval carries through his purpose regarding Kitty
Grigg, I'll do to him as I did to his servant this morning!  So help
me!"

The bird-lover gazed at him searchingly.

"Then--you know the girl?"

"Know her?  Yes!" exclaimed Norton hotly.  "I know her, and she's no
daughter of Abel Grigg!  Who her real family was will not be hard to
find out if I can get in touch with some of the officers of the
Cincinnati--but now for work.  Audubon, you heard what those devils
said about a horse-boat belonging to a Captain Brookfield.  Do you
know anything of such a craft?"

The other nodded, frowning.

"Yes.  Brookfield is an odd genius who has invented a way of driving
his forty-ton boat by horse-power against the river-current.  He is
at Louisville now, taking contracts for his next trip down the river,
and sails next month."

"Well, see here!"  Norton felt the fever gripping him again, but had
already glimpsed a plan of action.  "You get back to Louisville, see
Elisha Ayres, and tell him about it.  Ayres will communicate with me
at Blue River."

"And you----!" queried the astonished Audubon.

"I'll trail that devil of a Grigg," said Norton hastily.  "He said he
was going to meet 'the boys', and if I can find their cache we'll nab
the whole gang!  By thunder, Audubon, we've the whole thing in our
hands now!"

"But--wait!" cried Audubon hastily, as Norton turned toward the
trail.  "First, get this man Red Hugh!  If he's a hunter, as Boone
said, then you and he together will have no trouble picking up
Grigg's trail, and you may need another rifle badly."

For a moment Norton considered this, while the fever swirled through
him.  He was sorely tempted to plunge off on the trail of Abel Grigg,
but knew that there was sound advice in Audubon's words.

"All right," he said shortly.  "Come--we'll find Red Hugh first."

His excitement overbore his illness for the moment, and returning to
the trail he led the way to the very crest of the knoll.  Duval and
Grigg had been swallowed up in the forest, but staring them in the
face was a giant cottonwood, blazed north and south.  Pointing to it
silently, Norton wheeled and headed away from the river into the
trees.

How far they went through that wilderness he never knew, for after
ten minutes he was fighting desperately against the pain and sickness
which came over him.  Worse than all, he was growing terribly weak;
once he caught himself reeling, and only by a great effort did he
keep on.  Audubon had a small compass, by which they held directly
south as Boone had commanded.

Then, almost without warning, Norton felt his knees giving way.  He
was very clear-headed, but he seemed to have lost the power of
motion.  With a single low groan he caught at a tree, missed it, and
plunged down.  Audubon was over him on the instant, raising him
against the tree, dread anxiety in face and voice.

"It's just--weakness," gasped Norton.  "A touch of fever, I think.
Get Red Hugh--put him on the trail of Grigg.  I'll be all right with
a bit of rest.  Hurry, man!"

Audubon looked about, biting his lips.  Before he could reply,
however, a bush to one side of them waved slightly, the sunlight
glinted on a rifle-barrel, and a voice rang out in harsh command:

"Hands up, you skunk!  Drop that rifle--quick!"

Helpless, the naturalist obeyed.  Norton tried to reach his rifle,
but could not move, and with another groan of despair fell back,
waiting grimly for what might come.




CHAPTER VIII

Into the clearing before them stepped a strange figure, rifle still
covering the startled Audubon--a tall man clad in buckskin and
coonskin cap, with, of course, moccasins.  He was gaunt and
huge-boned, grey hair falling over his shoulders and a grizzled red
moustache and beard half-hiding his face.  For all that, Norton was
startled by the man's features.

They were anything but those of a riverman.  True, the sunken grey
eyes held a smouldering ferocity which was almost madness; but the
high brow, fine nose, and shapely head, even the delicate lines of
mouth and chin beneath the flowing beard--all these expressed a keen
intelligence, almost a nobility, which was utterly astounding to
Norton.

"What's this--what's this!"  The stranger lowered his rifle suddenly
as his eyes fell on Norton's features.  Carefully uncocking the
weapon, he stared at the two friends, an indescribable expression of
chagrin overspreading his countenance.  "Gentlemen, I must crave your
pardon.  From his moccasins I took this gentleman for an
Indian,"--and he gravely indicated Norton--"for he is deeply browned
and his features were all but hidden from me.  God be thanked I did
not shoot first!"

"Amen to that!" cried Norton feebly, essaying a faint smile.
Audubon, no less astonished at the looks and speech of the stranger,
made a slight bow, and spoke coldly:

"If your murderous impulse has quite abated, sir, pray lend this
gentleman your aid.  We are seeking the cabin of a man called Red
Hugh.  Do you know where it is?"

From what Boone had told him, and from the appearance and manner of
the stranger, Norton had a very shrewd suspicion that this was no
other than Red Hugh himself.  Leaning on his long rifle, the man
surveyed the two friends critically.

"Well," he returned at length, "I may say yes to that question, sir.
But I will barter my information for yours.  You, sir"--and he bent
his sunken grey eyes on Norton--"are wearing a pair of Shawnee
moccasins.  As you probably know, the beads and quill-work on those
moccasins are peculiar.  In fact, there is only one man besides
yourself in the Northwest who wears such moccasins, and he is an
Indian--the only Indian I have ever held under my rifle and spared.
Where did you get them?"

Norton sat up, fighting off the dizzy weakness that all but mastered
him.  The man's words sent eager curiosity through him.

"I had them from an Indian," he returned quickly, and gave a brief
account of the two he had encountered.  Before he finished, a fresh
spasm of nausea overwhelmed him, and he sank back in Audubon's arms.

"Enough of this talk," cried the naturalist angrily.  "If you will
guide us to this Red Hugh, sir, pray do so at once.  We come to him
from Colonel Boone----"

"If you had said that before, you would have bettered matters," broke
in the tall stranger.  "I am he whom you seek.  Come."

Norton had lost all interest in the proceedings, for he could no
longer fight off the fever.  Between them the other two got him to
his feet and half-carried him along a faint trail indicated by Red
Hugh.  After what seemed centuries to the reeling Norton, they came
to a cabin, and he dimly felt himself carried inside.  He knew little
of what happened next, save that he drank a bitter draught and fell
asleep.

When he wakened, he stared around him with wondering eyes, trying to
place himself.  He tried to move, and found himself too weak to raise
his arm; yet the terrible sickness had passed.

He was lying on a couch of skins, and by the deepness of the sun
outside he guessed it was mid-afternoon.  The cabin was a bare place
enough save for the furs heaped around the floor, but directly
opposite him, beside the hearth, was a strange contrivance made of a
stretched elkskin almost covering the side wall.  From where he lay
he could see a row of words across the top of the big skin, clearly
done in red paint as if with a brush:

  WYANDOT--SHAWNEE--MIAMI--
  CREEK--DELAWARE--POTT.--OTTAWA.


Under each tribal name was smaller writing which he could not read.

For a space he stared at the thing in wonder.  Then, with a rush, he
remembered that he lay in the cabin of Red Hugh, and all which had
gone before.  There was work to be done!  Abel Grigg must be trailed
to his meeting-place with the other pirates.  Norton made a terrible
effort to rise, but collapsed with a groan of despair.

At the sound, a figure darkened the doorway, and he looked up to see
the tall form of Red Hugh bending over him.  His head was lifted and
a rolled skin set beneath it: then the old backwoodsman drew up a
stool, fetched a bowl of hot broth from the fire, and set to work
feeding him with a spoon.

"Talk later," he said gently.  "First, you must eat.  You have slept
since yesterday, friend, and----"

Norton, feeling new strength with the first mouthful of broth, pushed
the spoon away desperately.  The words shocked him into energy, and
again he tried to sit up.

"Since yesterday!" he exclaimed.  "But Grigg must be followed----"

The iron hand of Red Hugh pushed him back.

"Eat!"  And the deep command forced him to obey.  "You lack only
strength, Norton, and that will come in a few days.  Now, to relieve
your anxiety, your friend Audubon told me all that had passed.  We
tried to trail Grigg, but the scoundrel had covered his tracks like
an Indian and I feared to leave you alone here.  So Audubon went back
to Louisville to confer with Ayres, and for the present matters must
be left as they are."

"Then you know my errand?"

"Yes.  Audubon told me the whole affair.  Now finish this broth."

Leaning back, Norton obeyed, in a mingling of disappointment and
content.  It was hard that Grigg should have escaped, yet this Red
Hugh seemed a capable person to trust in.  Norton could not but
wonder at the man.  According to Boone, Red Hugh had spent the past
twenty years here on the border, yet his manners and speech were
those of a cultivated gentleman--and Norton could not understand the
incongruity of it.

The rich broth gave him new life.  When the last drop was gone, Red
Hugh proceeded to cram an ancient pipe with tobacco, sternly denying
the luxury to his guest, and settled himself beside the couch.

"Shawnee moccasins!  Shawnee moccasins!" he muttered slowly, then
brought his keen eyes to Norton's face.  "Audubon said you were from
New Orleans?"

"Yes," returned the Louisianian, with curiosity again stirring in
him.  "You seemed to recognize those moccasins, sir--how shall I call
you?"

"Call me by my name--Red Hugh," said the other gruffly.  "That is all
the name I have held these twenty years, and it is good enough to die
under.  As to those moccasins, sir, you seem to have entertained an
angel and a devil unawares."

"Those two Indians?" demanded Norton eagerly.  "Who were they, then?"

"He with one eye is called the Prophet," puffed Red Hugh slowly.
"The bitterest-hearted devil unhung!  The other, his brother, is the
finest man on the border to-day, the one redskin I am proud to call
friend.  He has sat here where you now lie, telling me of his dream;
he has built a town on the Wabash, not far from Vincennes, where he
hopes to gather all the Indian tribes in peace, teaching them to lay
aside the rifle and till the soil.  Neither he nor his followers
touch liquor--sir, God will punish our race for the evils we have
brought upon these Indians!  The man of whom I speak is a Shawnee,
humbly born yet recognized as chieftain by a dozen tribes.  His name
is Tecumthe, or as the border makes it, Tecumsey."

The amazed Norton listened to this speech in blank astonishment.  He
had heard little of the two Indians in the South, and only on his
Northern trip had he learned much of Tecumthe or his famous brother,
the Prophet.  Along the border they were hated bitterly, and that he
had himself aided the two was no small surprise.

Even more amazing, however, was the way in which Red Hugh spoke.
From Boone, Norton had understood that the man hunted Indians, as
more than one frontiersman did, like wild animals.

"Tell me this," he asked, bewildered.  "I thought you hated all
redskins, Hugh?  If that is true, what care you for the evil we have
brought upon them, and why do you think so highly of Tecumthe?"

The other puffed in silence for a moment, his face set like stone.

"Look at that elk-hide yonder," he said, at length, gesturing with
his pipe toward the stretched skin, his voice deeply stirred.
"Norton, that skin bears record of a hundred and a score Indians I
have slain.  Twenty years ago a band of red devils murdered my whole
family, my wife, my children, killed my dearest friend, left me for
dead----"

He paused, and after a space continued, his voice firmer.

"I recovered, and having naught to live for save vengeance, I took
vengeance.  Every redskin I have slain has been a warrior under arms,
and I have hunted them without pity or mercy, even as they have
hunted me.  This man Tecumthe is different.  His heart is white,
Norton.  While the Prophet is stirring up war, Tecumthe is urging
peace; he has a great vision of uplifting his race--but he cannot do
it.  His men are murdered along the frontier and he can get no
justice.  His lands are stolen, and Harrison will do nothing.  If he
loses the Wabash Valley, the Shawnees will be thrown back on the
Sioux and Blackfeet, their mortal enemies.  Well, let us get off this
subject, Norton.  You know who I am, and that is enough.  We have to
deal, not with Indians, but with men worse than Indians."

"Yes," said Norton bitterly.  "This gang of river-pirates has
murdered more men within the last year or two than have all all the
Indians since Fallen Timbers.  Too bad Grigg escaped you; we had the
whole gang under our hand right there, could we have trapped him."

Red Hugh laid aside his pipe and fell to stroking his grizzled beard
as they discussed what was to be done.  Norton was dismayed to find
that he would be unable to get around for several days, though Red
Hugh promised him a complete cure from his fever and wounds.

Nor could he obtain the information for which he had hoped, from this
strange character.  Red Hugh, who seemed well educated and only a
trifle "touched" on the subject of killing Indians, had a supreme
contempt for the settlers along the river, in the main.  He had been
only once to Louisville, and had lived his solitary life as far as
might be without concerning himself with settlements.  He knew
nothing of the Blacknose gang, though he stated bluntly that once he
and Norton set themselves to hunt down the pirates, it would be a
matter of short accomplishment.

So with that small ray of comfort, Norton went about his recovery,
impatiently enough.  When three days had passed, he felt nearly
himself once more; but in that space of time he had discovered many
things.

In the first place, he was forced to reverse his earlier impressions
of Red Hugh.  While he was ill, the man took a lively interest in
caring for him; no sooner was Norton on his feet, than Red Hugh
relapsed into a brooding morose individual who refused to talk about
himself or his doings and only betrayed interest in Blacknose.
Studying the man, Norton concluded that he had been a gentleman and a
man of some consequence, but since the destruction of his family had
devoted his whole life to revenge with a consequent loss of sanity on
other topics.

He seemed to have absolutely no other business in life than killing
Indians, for a living was easily gained by hunting.  He had never
troubled to take up land, and since there were no settlements in the
vicinity, no one interfered with his squatting.  All his vivacity and
gentle care vanished as soon as Norton regained strength, and with
this interest gone, he would sit and stare by the hour at his
terrible elkskin.

This Norton also found of keen interest, for every "hunt" had been
carefully set down as to date and result.  When they took the field
against Blacknose, he conjectured shrewdly that Red Hugh would
re-awaken once more, for judging by the elk-skin he was possessed of
considerable prowess in the man-hunt.  He must have gone about his
revenge with a terrible skill; more than once the painted record
showed that parties of two and three Indians had fallen to his rifle.

John Norton was in no sense horrified, though not at all in sympathy
with the old man.  There were many like him along the border.  The
settlers conceived and treated the red men as beasts, which too often
they were, and no man was ever brought to justice for killing an
Indian.  Red Hugh's grievances were purely personal, however, and
more than once Norton recalled Boone's words--"God ain't softened his
heart yet, though He will some day, I reckon."  That day, it seemed
to Norton, was very far distant.

Only once, after that first talk with the man, did he ever refer to
his slain family.  He had been examining Norton's moccasins, on the
third evening, and suddenly he favoured the Louisianian with one of
his searching looks.

"If you were up in the Shawnee country," he said abruptly, "these
leathers would either get you killed or crowned, Norton!  Any Indian
across the Ohio would recognize them instantly.  Well--well----"

He stared into the fireplace, puffing at his pipe.  After a moment he
continued slowly as if musing to himself:

"They were Wyandots, a big war-party of them, and their chief wore
moccasins with split soles.  They killed us all, women and children
alike--and after I recovered I went straight into the Wyandot
country.  I found that chief, a year later, and shot him in the midst
of his own village; old Simon Kenton was with me, and we had a hard
fight before we got away.  Well, I had my revenge, but it did not
bring back the dead wife and the little ones--the little ones----"

Upon that he strode from the cabin suddenly, and Norton never
referred to his own similar story, deeming it best to keep Red Hugh's
mind as far as possible from Indian atrocities.  The man seemed no
more than sixty years old, and save for that one topic his brain was
as vigorous as that of Norton himself.

By the fourth evening the Louisianian was nearly himself again.  Red
Hugh's knowledge of herbs had rid him of the fever almost at once,
and strength came back to him surely and swiftly.  Burning with
anxiety to waste no time, yet conscious of the necessity of regaining
his strength, he had forced himself to bide in the idleness of
recuperation, but now he could do so no longer.  There was work to be
done, and he was bent upon keeping control of things--for his own
career lay in the balance.  He had not resigned his commission in mad
haste, but after much deliberation; did he succeed in eliminating the
Blacknose gang, New Orleans and the Government had promised great
things.

More than this, however, he had Kitty Grigg in mind.  Once the
present affair was concluded he promised himself a trip to
Cincinnati, where many of the original members of the famous Order
had settled.  It should not be difficult to make inquiries and
perhaps gain a clue to the girl's real family, he thought.  So,
calling Red Hugh into a gloomy consideration of the problem
immediately at hand, he announced his intention of beginning work
next day.

"The first thing is to go to Blue River and get word from Elisha
Ayres," he said thoughtfully.  "I can't go back to Louisville unless
that murder charge is cleared up, which should have been done by this
time.  If not, we'll have to go on a thorough scout of the river,
because Grigg and his band of pirates are somewhere down-stream."

Red Hugh nodded.

"Where are you going to meet the messenger from Ayres?"

"At Dodd's Tavern--Kentucky side."

"H'm!"  The other frowned.  "I haven't been there for two years,
Norton, but I don't recall any tavern or settler of that name at
either of the Blue River settlements.  However, your friend doubtless
knew what he was talking about."

"He seemed to," said Norton drily.  "Blue River is only about twelve
miles from here----"

"I have a canoe down on the shore.  Feel strong enough to paddle?"

"Quite.  If we find no word from Ayres, we can go on below Henderson
and spend a couple of weeks scouting through the woods.  The gang
must have some sort of a rendezvous, Hugh, and it certainly has a
cache of the stolen goods, for Grigg has to be careful in disposing
of them.  Which side of the river would you search?"

Red Hugh stared at his elk-hide, tugging at his grizzled beard.

"Well," he returned slowly, his deep-set eyes flaming a little,
"they'd be like to use either side, Norton.  If we skirmished around
on the Indiana side around the Wabash, we might strike one or two
Indian parties----"

"None of that," broke in Norton, understanding that ominous flame in
the man's eye.  "We're after Blacknose, not after scalps.  Just
impress that on your mind and save further trouble.  If you give me
your help in this thing, there'll be no Indian hunting."


The big man turned his slow gaze to Norton's face, and for a moment
the Louisianian expected trouble.  Red Hugh stared at him; Norton met
the look firmly, resolved not to compromise this matter, much as he
needed the man's help and advice.  At length Red Hugh nodded,
reluctantly.

"I like you, Norton," he said, his grim visage softening strangely.
"You're a man.  You're like another Norton I once knew--well, best
not to speak of that.  Now as to hunting this Blacknose gang: we are
more like to find them on the Indiana side.  If aught went wrong with
their plans, they could escape to the Indian country, or else lay the
blame for their crimes on the Shawnees.  There are several bands of
Miamis along there, also.  It may well be that through some Indians
we can get trace of the gang, if naught else serves."

Upon this, they made ready to set forth at dawn.  Norton discarded
his own battered powderhorn for the fine red-streaked one which the
assassin Tobin had formerly carried--an act which was destined to
bring dire results upon himself before the game was played out.  He
forgot the fact that this red-streaked horn was distinguished by its
very oddness and beauty.

With the dawn they set forth for the blazed cottonwood and the Ohio,
carrying their rifles and a quarter of venison.  Upon reaching the
bluff over the river, Red Hugh turned abruptly aside and led Norton
down to the wooded banks, where he presently fished out an Indian
birch canoe and paddles from a clump of dense bushes.  Two canoes
were paddling upstream along the opposite shore, and when these were
past, they put their craft in the water and started for Blue River.

The river hills ran close to the stream on each side, and except for
the little group of cabins under the high rocky cliff opposite them
the banks were unsettled as far as Blue River.  Norton paddled
easily, drinking in fresh strength with the sun-bright morning air,
and could scarce realize their journey was nearly done when Red Hugh
pointed to Blue River ahead.  They had passed Indian Creek and two
islands without sight of other river-craft, and now held in to the
Kentucky shore.

"Colonel Boone's brother, Squire, began that settlement"--and Red
Hugh pointed across to the clustering cabins opposite.  "Now if you
can see any signs of a tavern over here, you beat me."

In truth, Norton gazed at the Kentucky settlement which they were
approaching, and his heart sank.  Ayres must have made some
mistake--yet the schoolmaster had been very explicit in his
directions.  The settlement consisted of two cabins, one of them fast
falling to ruin; a few tobacco-drying sheds; a small section of
cleared land; and a half-naked woman staring hard at them.  Two or
three entirely naked children appeared as they paddled in, and as the
slatternly woman raised her voice, a still more slatternly man came
slouching from the tobacco-sheds, rifle in hand.  There was no sign
of any road or ferry, and this was most certainly no tavern.  Norton
landed with some dismay.

"Is this the Kentucky Blue River settlement?" he inquired of the
suspicious man--a loose-jawed, fever-smitten person who lacked all
interest in life.

"I reckon they call it that, stranger.  Who be ye?"

"We're looking for Dodd's Tavern," returned Norton quietly.  "If you
can tell----"

"Eh?  Dodd's Tavern?  Well, by gum!"  The man stared at him, then
turned to the woman behind him.  "Go git that gal."

The woman went to the house.  Red Hugh drew up his canoe and joined
Norton, and together they waited for what was evidently to happen.
The woman reappeared from the cabin, nodded, and fell to staring.  A
moment later Kitty Grigg emerged, and came forward with a glad, eager
little cry at sight of Norton.

"Captain Norton!  Oh, I'm so glad you've come--I had almost given you
up!"

"You!"  Norton grasped her hand, thunder-struck.  "Why, girl--what
does this mean?  How came you here?"

"By boat," she laughed.  "And I have news from Mr. Ayres."




CHAPTER IX

Utterly astounded as he was at sight of Kathleen Grigg, and even more
so by Ayres having chosen such a messenger, Norton drew her out of
earshot of the curious settlers to the canoe, and introduced Red
Hugh.  The latter stared at the girl, then stretched forth a huge
hand and touched the flame of her red-gold hair with trembling
fingers, awe in his whole face.

"Kitty Grigg!" he muttered thickly, as the half-frightened girl
shrank back to Norton's arm.  "Kitty Grigg!  Yet she has the face of
my own Mary--oh, God in heaven!"

Abruptly, he turned his back upon them and stood leaning on his
rifle, his shoulders shaking.  Norton realized swiftly that the old
man had found some resemblance in her to that wife whom he had lost
in such tragic fashion, and in quick pity he gave the girl a warning
look and hastened to change the current of Red Hugh's thoughts.

"But, Kitty--how on earth came Ayres to send you, of all people?" he
cried in half-anger, half-wonder.  "He knew there was danger in
it----"

"Listen, please," she broke in, her hand on his arm and her eyes
searching his face hungrily.  "After you left me, that day, I saw
Colonel Boone and told him what you had said.  He knew nothing about
the pin, but he said to trust you and--and I do.  Then father went
off on a month's hunt, so I was going to visit with Mistress Zach
Taylor had not Mr. Ayres and Mr. Audubon come to see me----"

"Audubon?  When was this?" queried Norton, frowning.

"Four days since--directly he returned after leaving you with
him"--and she nodded toward Red Hugh, flushing slightly as she did
so.  "Mr. Audubon related all that had happened to you and him, but
as he was going away with Mr. Ayres they were not sure whom to send
here until they thought of me.  You see, I would not be suspected or
watched, and there was a skiff all ready to----"

"But--then you must know----"  Norton broke off suddenly, staring
into her level grey eyes, wondering if she had been told who
Blacknose really was.  She looked steadily at him, read his thought,
and her face went pale.

"Yes," she nodded quietly.  "Mr. Audubon told me all about it.  I do
not quite believe it can be possible, despite what you and Mr.
Audubon heard.  You see, sir, Mr. Duval has exerted some influence
over my fa----"

"Over Abel Grigg, you mean," interrupted Norton gravely.  He was all
the more astonished that she had come on this mission, knowing what
she did.

"Over--him," she went on, avoiding the issue.  "But he's not bad at
heart, really!  And I came here partly to ask you to help him--I
mean, if you find there is a gang of pirates, don't be too harsh with
him until he is proven guilty----"

"I promise you that, sweet Kitty," smiled Norton.  Then of a sudden
the warmth died out of his brown eyes, and his face went hard.
"Perhaps you were not told how he agreed to sell you to Duval, eh?"

"Yes," she almost whispered.  "I--I--oh, I do not know what to think
or say!  But never mind that now, Mr. Norton; Mr. Ayres said that you
were to return to Louisville at once----"

"You just said he and Audubon were going away?" broke in the puzzled
Norton.

"They'll be back when you get there.  Mr. Ayres has a plan about some
boat, and has gone up-river to get some men he can trust.  The
riverman who was murdered had two brothers----"

"Hold on," laughed Norton.  "How can I go back when everyone thinks I
committed that murder?  Straighten me out little by little, Kitty!"

"Nobody thinks you did it.  Mr. Ayres found that the knife with which
the man was murdered belonged to someone else, and also established
the fact that you had been outside the tavern all the while.  So that
is all right.  The owner of the knife escaped in a canoe."

"And I'll wager his name was Tobin," exclaimed Norton quickly.  She
looked at him, surprised.

"What--how did you know that?"

"Because I met Mr. Tobin myself."  Norton smiled grimly and glanced
at his powder-horn.  "Well, that's a relief, Kitty!  Now, how about
getting back?"

"I came down in a skiff that was going to Henderson," she explained.
"That was day before yesterday, and the skiff was to start back this
morning and stop for me.  Mr. Ayres knew there was no tavern here,
but that was why he used the name, in case of suspicion."

"So--I am beginning to understand!  This Mr. Ayres is a sly fox, eh?"

Norton whistled softly.  In asking for Dodd's Tavern he had merely
made use of a password which was known to the vacuous-eyed settler,
and had thus precluded any possibility of mistake.

"Wait here, Kitty," he said, and crossed to Red Hugh.  The latter
swung about, showing his usual grim searching expression.  "You heard
it all, Hugh?"

"Yes."  The big man nodded.

"Well, I fancy that Ayres is going to load up a boat and use it as a
lure," went on Norton in a low voice.  "It may well be Brookfield's
horse-boat, of which we heard Duval and Grigg speaking, and which
will leave Louisville in two or three weeks.  Hold on!"  And he
turned to the watching girl again.  "What did you say about Ayres
going away to raise some men?"

"I'm not quite sure myself," she answered, "but I gathered that he
was going for that purpose--he spoke about some men whose relatives
had disappeared with the vanished boats----"

"That's it, then," said Norton quickly.  "He'll get a few men he can
rely upon implicitly and stow them aboard the boat.  Then, when
Blacknose attacks, he'll find what he hadn't bargained for, Hugh!
Now will you come back to Louisville?  That skiff ought to be along
in an hour or two, if she left Henderson this morning----"

"No," broke in Red Hugh decisively.  "You stay here and take Madam
Grigg back, Norton.  I'll scout through the woods for a bit, then
will pick up your boat at Henderson when she comes down.  You'll be
aboard her?"

Norton assented with a nod.

"Good.  If there's no sign of me at Henderson, I'll signal you from
Diamond Island, just below--be sure and take the left-hand channel,
for I'll be on the Kentucky side.  Brookfield's boat, eh?  All
right--I'll watch out for you."


With a final look at Kitty Grigg, Red Hugh touched his cap and went
to the canoe with Norton.  The latter took out his rifle and
equipment; then Red Hugh stepped into the craft and shoved off.  A
wave of the hand, and he paddled off upstream in the direction whence
they had come that morning.  Norton stood watching him out of sight,
a most unwelcome feeling of loneliness stealing upon him; despite the
man's glum silences and bloodthirsty pursuit, he had a strange
fascination for Norton.

"Who is that man?  Is he the--the Red Hugh of whom Mr. Audubon spoke?"

The Louisianian turned, and smiled into the girl's wondering grey
eyes.

"I doubt if there be two of that name, Kitty!  Aye, he's the man, and
an odd one.  Come--let's sit on the bank over here where we can watch
the river.  I trust your skiff will return as she promised, for a
night in this place would be little to my liking."

"Oh, they're kindly folk enough, but terribly poor," she returned, as
Norton led her down the bank under the shade of a clump of
cottonwood.  "And such wretched, happy, dirty little babies!  I wish
I could do something for them."

He watched her, fascinated by her fresh beauty, wondering anew how
this pearl of womanhood came to be fixed in the squat cabin of Abel
Grigg.  For a space they sat in silence; she gazed out over the
river, hands clasped in her lap, while Norton filled his pipe and
smoked, feeling suddenly content with all things.

It was coming out all right, he felt, despite the failure to trail
Grigg down and trap the whole gang.  Of the relation between Grigg
and the girl beside him, he never bothered, being perfectly convinced
in his own mind that she was another man's daughter.  He remembered
the promise he had given her, but the deeper memory of that verbal
bill of sale had impressed him with a hatred and contempt for both
Grigg and Duval, which nothing would eradicate from his mind.

He recalled the vow he had taken upon that golden eagle, and perhaps
the thought leaped to Kathleen's mind, for she turned with a sudden
little laugh.

"Oh, I forgot!  Have you still got that gold eagle pin?"

"Yes."  Norton put his hand to his breast.  "Why?"

He could not understand the half-smile that lay in her eyes as she
looked at him.  Knowing that he was puzzled, she laughed again.

"Haven't you looked at it since that day?"

"No--but I will now."

He reached inside his shirt and unfastened the pin.  As the sunlight
fell on it, he frowned slightly; the broken enamel on its face did
not seem--suddenly he turned it over, and read the initials "H.E.M."

"By thunder!" he exclaimed, looking up at the laughing girl.  "I
handed you the wrong pin, eh?  It was a mistake, Kathleen----"

She nodded.  "Yes.  I discovered it after you had gone, so when I
came I brought this one of yours with me."

Norton looked at the pin she held out, recognizing it for his own.
Yet he made no move to take it.  Much as it meant to him, being his
only memorial from the father he could not remember, he only looked
at it and admired the slim beauty of the palm on which it lay.  Hers
was not the hand of a backwoods woman, he thought.

"Listen, Kitty," he said slowly.  "Just as soon as I've cleared up
this Blacknose affair here, I'm going to Cincinnati and find out who
the owner of this pin of yours really was.  A number of the
Cincinnati are there or in the neighbourhood, and they will have
records of the Order.  Let me keep your eagle until then, and you
keep mine as an earnest that I will return yours."

He found her face suddenly grave.

"I do not want to lose it," she said quietly.  "It means a good deal
to me, after what you have said----"

"Nor do I want to lose mine," he broke in, smiling.  "Oh, you are not
so easily rid of me, Kitty!  I will find your true name for you, and
that's a promise; until then, I will keep your eagle and do you keep
mine in pledge of my return.  Not that you need the pledge, since it
would be a far harder matter to keep away from your eyes----"

"Fie, sir!"  And she interrupted merrily enough.  "And how many
pledges have you left behind in Louisiana?"

"Two," returned Norton, so that for a moment her face became as
serious as his own.  "One to my friend, Davy Crockett, in shape of my
finest rifle; and one to the traders who sent me hither, in shape of
a promise that I would wipe out Blacknose.  Tell me, Kitty, do you
wish to marry Charles Duval?"

"Do you think I wish it?"  And she inspected him with half-frightened
eyes.

"Well"--Norton shifted his rifle uneasily,--"he is a person of note,
is a gentleman of family--and is able to buy you with money."

"So much might be said for the Indian Tecumthe," she returned,
flushing at the brutality of his last words.  "No, I shall not marry
him."

"Bravely said," nodded Norton, and felt tremendously relieved.  Of
course, he told himself, his only interest lay in saving this
helpless girl from two scoundrels.  "Well, even if Abel Grigg swears
you're under age----"

"There's the skiff coming!" she cried quickly.  "Just crossing over."


Norton glanced up.  Perhaps a mile down the river and with her eight
sweeps bringing her slowly across in a long slant for the Kentucky
side, was a large boat.  There was no hurry, he calculated, for she
would require a good fifteen or twenty minutes to head over across
the swift current of the Ohio----

"_----then you take this horse and rejoin the boys.  I'll get back in
that boat._"

The cold, commanding words rang out clearly from somewhere behind and
above.

Norton stiffened; with one quick motion he unstopped his powderhorn
and poured some black grains into the pan of his rifle, as it lay
across his knees.

"The durned spy must ha' lit out," came the growl of Abel Grigg's
voice.  "Tobin ain't showed up, neither."

The Louisianian glanced swiftly at Kathleen.  She was staring at him
wide-eyed, her face ghastly in its sudden pallor.  He knew that she
must have realized instantly what had occurred--Duval, on his way
home from Henderson, had met Grigg and intended to turn over his
horse to the backwoodsman and catch this skiff back to Louisville.
Cursing the mischance of fate which had led to such a happening, and
thinking only of keeping the girl unseen, Norton leaned forward and
whispered, with a gesture toward the trees:

"I'll back them into the woods.  Get under those trees, and when the
boat comes get aboard."

"No," she returned, with a shake of the head.  "Why should I be
afraid?"

Reading determination in her eyes, Norton cursed again, silently, and
leaped up.  Discovery was certain; his only chance now lay in holding
up the two men and surprising some confession from them.  With
Audubon as sole witness, he could hardly hope to force Duval into
court; but with Kathleen's testimony and that of the settlers, there
was a bare chance.  His rifle ready, he left the girl and sprang up
the bank.

A curious scene greeted him, and one which showed that Elisha Ayres
had not selected this settler's cabin by any vagary.  The squalid
woman and babies had vanished; the settler himself sat in the doorway
of his shack with his rifle ostentatiously in hand; paying no heed to
him, Duval and Grigg were standing near the landing, the latter
holding the horse's bridle in one hand, his rifle in the other.
Duval had a pair of pistols in his belt.

"Hands up, gentlemen!" commanded Norton sharply.  "Drop that rifle,
Blacknose!"

As Norton levelled his weapon, the settler in the doorway rose also,
watching the other two.  Duval, whirling with one terrible convulsion
of his features, looked into Norton's rifle and forced the look from
his face; Grigg obeyed the command with a snarl, his powerful,
hook-nosed face grimacing in surprise and consternation.

"Why--sir!  What is the meaning of this, Mr. Norton?"

Duval's expression of astonishment was an excellent counterfeit.  His
virile, dark, thin-lipped face showed only blank surprise, but this
did not deceive Norton.

"You're a pretty pair of scoundrels!" he said grimly.  "Your game's
up, Duval, so no need to play innocent.  Grigg, you're known for
Blacknose.  I think you'll both go to Louisville on that boat, but
you'll go bound."

He saw Grigg's eyes widen and his jaw fall in astonishment, and
needed not the step behind him to know that Kathleen had come up.
Duval, however, maintained his cold poise.

"You are making a grievous mistake, Captain Norton," he returned,
softly.  "You must either be out of your senses or----"

"So?" chuckled Norton easily.  "You remember how you and Blacknose
there paused on your way to Henderson a few days ago, and held a
conversation just before you parted company?  There were witnesses to
that conversation, my friend."

Grigg went livid, and his bushy grizzled beard quivered as he stared
at Norton.  Duval, however, showed no sign of emotion beyond a
tightening of his lips; his dark eyes glittered ominously, and the
cruel curve of his nostrils deepened.  In that moment Norton knew
that he had lost his play, and would get nothing out of this man.
Grigg opened his mouth to speak, but Duval shut him up sharply.

"I said, sir, that you were mistaken," returned the lawyer coldly.
"The tenor of that conversation must have been misunderstood by you.
Madam Grigg, your servant."

He bowed slightly to the girl.  With an inward groan, Norton lowered
his rifle.  If he brought the matter to an issue, he knew well that
he would fail; neither Duval nor Grigg had mentioned Blacknose by
name, and the conversation was incriminating only by inference.  And
inference counted for nothing in the Kentucky courts.

"Duval, I'm going to get you."  And Norton suppressed the rage within
him, his voice as cold and level as that of the lawyer.  "You're the
man behind this Blacknose gang, and Grigg there is Blacknose.  I know
that much, and I'm going to prove it some day."

"You will have far to travel before that day, sir," returned Duval
with a thinly veiled sneer.

"Perhaps."  And Norton smiled a little as their eyes clinched.  "Not
as far, however, as the road your friend Tobin has already travelled."

The shot told.  Duval's eyes narrowed suddenly; then a hoarse cry
broke from Grigg, who pointed at Norton's waist.

"Look thar!  The cuss has got Tobin's horn----"

"What is that to us?"  Duval whirled on him, with so terrible a face
that Grigg fell back.  "What is Tobin to us, you fool?  Do you know
him?"

"No," stammered Grigg, giving Norton a furious look.  "No, I don't
know him."

The Louisianian smiled in contempt.  Duval had outguessed him
shrewdly, and he would now get no evidence out of either man.

"Captain Norton"--Duval turned to him with a smooth smile--"I trust
you perceive your mistake."

"Yes," returned Norton quietly, giving the man a hard look.  "You're
smarter than I thought, Duval.  But you'll swing yet--mark that!"

The lawyer made no reply, beyond a cold sneer.  A glance showed
Norton that the settler's rifle had vanished, and knowing that Duval
would not dare shoot him down with the approaching boat so near, he
lowered his own rifle and stood leaning on it.  Grigg, however,
stepped forward with an oath.

"I got a word to say here," he cried savagely, glaring past Norton at
the girl.  "What you doin' here, Kitty?  You and him was settin'
under the bank makin' love, eh?  What you doin' here?"

Norton turned with a helpless gesture.  The girl did not heed him,
but looked at Grigg, pale but calm.

"Be careful what you say"--and her voice trembled a little.  "I came
here with a message for Mr. Norton.  Further than that, it is no
business of yours."

"Hey!  No business o' mine, ain't it?" shot out Grigg, his gaunt head
flung forward until with his keen-hooked nose he looked uncommonly
like the bird of prey that he was.  "Looky here, gal, don't you talk
to your o' dad like that!  Now you're here, you'll come along o' me
into the woods fer a spell----"

The girl drew herself up angrily.

"You're no father of mine, Abel Grigg," she cried out, and Norton
could not but admire the proud spirit of her.  "I know that now, and
you've no authority over me!"


Grigg stood as though paralysed.  Duval stared at the girl for a
moment, then turned and whispered a few low words to his companion.
Norton would have given much to know what they were, but their effect
was evident.

With a complete change of manner, Grigg forced the anger from his
face and spoke in a low wheedling voice which yet had a ring of
sincerity in it.

"Looky here, Kitty!  You ain't meanin' that----"

"I mean what I say," she flashed back at him.  "I know you're not my
father, and so does Captain Norton.  That's enough."

Grigg flung Norton one malignant glance.

"Well, gal," he said slowly, "that's true.  I ain't your dad."

"Who am I, then?" demanded Kathleen swiftly.

"I dunno."  The backwoodsman shook his head, and Norton could not but
believe he spoke the truth.  "I found ye nigh on twenty year back,
Kitty, in an Injun camp.  Wyandots, they was, an' I bought ye fer a
new horn o' powder an' a gun.  That thar's God's truth, gal.  They
wouldn't say nothin' 'bout ye.  Now I've told, gal, you won't go back
on the ol' man?  Come 'long into the woods a spell----"

"I think not," broke in Norton drily.  "Grigg, we know all about how
you want to sell Kitty to this skunk of a Duval.  She'll have nothing
more to do with you.  That's flat."

"You've been an' set her up to this, hey?" snarled Grigg suddenly,
turning on the Louisianian.  "All right!  I'll make ye pay afore I'm
done with ye!"

Duval gave the angry man a look, and again Grigg flung off his rage
swiftly.

"Kitty, won't ye go with me?" he said slowly, picking up his rifle.

"No."

Duval stood aside, watching, a shadowy sneer on his powerful
features.  A glance at the river showed Norton the skiff some three
hundred yards away and slowly approaching the landing.  Grigg,
leaning on his rifle and clawing his grizzled beard, looked at the
girl with a sudden sadness in his deep eyes.

"Kitty," he said very slowly, the harsh timbre of his voice
accentuating his words and lending them sincerity, "I've brung ye up
as best I could.  When the ol' woman died ten year back, it was you
helped to bury her.  'Member that?  Ye allus called me Dad, didn't
ye?  I've done right by ye, gal, accordin' to my lights.  Ain't I
give ye the best I could?  Ain't I paid ol' Elisha Ayres to give ye
learnin'?  You ain't lacked fer nothin', Kitty, even if I am poor."

Norton, listening, forbore to interfere.  It occurred to him that
Grigg was making a desperate fight for a valuable piece of property,
yet there was truth in what the man said.  And Kathleen knew it.
Struggle sat in her face.

"Kitty, gal," went on Grigg with renewed earnestness, "I ain't askin'
much of ye.  I've allus give ye the best I had, ain't I?  Now, looky
here.  Fur's anyone knows, you're my daughter an' I could force ye
any ways I wanted to.  But I don't.  I love ye, gal, an' all I want
is fer you to stick by me a bit longer.  I'm gettin' old, Kitty, an'
ain't as well able to take care o' myself as I used to be.  If you're
mixed up with that spy feller, Kitty, ye've done me a mighty bad
turn, but I ain't carin' fer that.  Now ain't you a-goin' to come
along o' me, little gal?  You ain't a-goin' to leave the ol' man, be
ye?"

"What do you want of me?"  Sorely shaken, the girl looked at him.
"Why shouldn't I go back home, then?"

"Because I need ye, gal," returned Grigg earnestly.  "I'd 'a' brung
ye afore, only I didn't know as I'd need ye.  They's a camp
down-river a piece, where I aim to set out quite a spell, an' I want
ye to cook an' take care o' things fer us.  Kitty, don't go back on
me after I done brung ye up all them years!  Even if ye don't love
me, don't ye reckon ye owe me somethin'?  I've took good care on ye,
gal----"

Terribly pale, the girl turned to Norton.  He read the weariness of
her eyes, and started to speak, but she stopped him:

"No--he's right, Mr. Norton.  I owe him some duty, though it will
never go so far as marrying that man."  And she flashed Duval one
contemptuous glance.  "Good-bye, Mr. Norton--and God bless you!"

Norton bowed over her hand, bringing it to his lips.  The touch
thrilled him, and for a long moment he looked down into her grey
eyes, not trusting himself to speak.

"Good-bye, for the present," he said huskily, his finely-chiselled
face very tender, "And remember--I shall see you again."

With no more words she turned to Grigg, who helped her to the saddle
of Duval's horse, and they started away.  Norton gazed after them,
feeling the girl's high character grip at his heart-strings; then he
turned at a hail from the river landing.

"Hey, you fellers!  Who's fer Louisville?"

"All right!" replied the Louisianian.  He looked at Duval, and his
eyes flamed out like a sword.  "Duval," he said softly, "you're a
yellow dog!  You've tried murder and failed; now play your last card
and do it soon, or you're gone!"

Immobile, his face set as though carven in stone, Duval gazed at him.
Then his strong white teeth flashed out in a slow smile.  "If you
wish to make your last will and testament, Captain Norton, anyone in
Louisville can direct you to my office.  Sir, your servant!"

And with a bow he passed down to the waiting boat.  Norton followed,
smiling a little, his heart sore within him for Kitty Grigg.

"But, by gad, it's in the open now!" he thought.  "Duval is smart,
but his craft has sprung a leak--and the tide will swamp him whether
I live or die!"




CHAPTER X

The trip to Louisville was uneventful, yet significant.  As Norton
went aboard the boat, the captain touched his arm and whispered.

"Captain Norton?"

"Yes?"

"The lady----"

"Does not return with us, sir."

The captain stepped back and signed to his men.  Of these there were
ten--all big, bearded men who kept silent for the whole trip, though
Duval tried to converse with them more than once.  Nor did any
address Norton after he was aboard.  Save for the captain's orders,
the trip was made in silence.

When they were rowing past the bluff behind which Red Hugh dwelt,
Norton searched the woods in vain for any sign of his friends, and
caught Duval's eye roving over the bluff as well.  Buck Creek and
Salt River were passed without stoppage, and when Norton offered to
pay his passage, he was informed that it has been paid; Duval, a
little later, was taxed a dollar, which he paid promptly.  At length
Sullivan's ferry swept by and Shippingsport hove in sight ahead.

Norton knew nothing of what had been going on in his absence, but
there were a large number of craft, both keel and flatboats, in the
Louisville harbour, while loading of freight was proceeding busily.

The skiff rowed in through the vessels to a wharf, and Norton saw a
small figure in scarlet breeches and fustian greatcoat waiting for
their landing.  He leaped out with a cry of joy, and greeted Elisha
Ayres with a strong grip of the hand.  The little schoolmaster
straightened his greasy wig, and turned to meet Duval with a low bow.

"Your servant, Mr. Duval!" he said, in his dry precise manner.

The lawyer bowed slightly, fastened his cold gaze on the pinched,
twinkling-eyed face of Ayres, and passed on without speaking.  With a
chuckle, Ayres passed his arm under Norton's and turned.

"Come, Mr. Norton.  Do not talk, if you please."

In no little wonder, Norton accommodated his step to that of the
other, and they walked through the little town toward Louisville.
Ayres placed no ban of silence upon his own tongue, however; he
chattered volubly, pointed out various objects of interest, and
paused at the top of the hill to turn Norton toward the harbour.

"Just to our right, Mr. Norton, is the Berthoud rope-walk--one of the
finest, I may say, in the United States.  There is Mr. Berthoud's
residence just beyond us.  Now from here we get a truly remarkable
view of the shipping; you will observe that a half-dozen keels are
being laden for New Orleans, under command of Commodore Peters.  The
outside craft is the gunboat of Captain Nevitt, which carries a small
cannon.  To the left you will see Captain Brookfield's horse-boat--a
most ingenious contrivance, sir."

At length Norton caught the drift of all this volubility, and gazed
at the "horse-boat" with no little interest.  It was a large craft of
forty tons, with an ungainly gallery on the upper deck.  On this, as
Ayres pointed out, six or seven horses worked a treadmill which in
turn worked the large side-paddles, over each gunwale.  The boat was
a decided novelty, and as Brookfield had broken a number of paddles
on his trip up-river, she would be delayed from joining the fleet
under Peters and Nevitt, which was leaving in two days.

When Norton had finished his inspection, Ayres turned him toward the
city again and they proceeded on their way.  Duval had disappeared.
Mindful of the rapidity with which things had happened to him on his
previous visit, Norton kept a watchful eye on the passers-by; he had
an uneasy sense of being watched, and perceived that an unduly large
proportion of the men were roughly dressed but excellently armed.  It
seemed to him that Duval must have filled the town with his own men,
and things began to loom up darkly before him.

"These, sir, are the hanging gardens of Mr. Buttet"--and Ayres paused
as they reached the lower end of town, speaking in his usual
oratorical style and with a sweep of his hand toward the handsome
brick house to their left.  "From here we gain an excellent view of
the river--one of the finest views in the United States, I may say,
sir.  Yonder you perceive Jeffersonville in Indiana; a little to the
left, the magnificent falls of the Ohio.  Beyond this, Clarksville
and the Silver Creek hills, with the forests and Rock Island
completing the panorama.  And just ahead of us, sir, an interesting
episode is about to be enacted, if I mistake not."

Norton, who was paying little heed to the view but much to what
passed around him, loosened his knife in its sheath; the "interesting
episode", he concluded swiftly, would be enacted by something better
than fists.  Lounging on the board walk a dozen yards ahead, and
eyeing him with insolent and provocative glances, were two huge
rivermen.  Both were idly whittling at small sticks, and Norton had
no doubt of their intent.

Fastening his eyes on the pair and already angered by their insolent
looks, he flung off Ayres's restraining hand and stepped forward.
Then, however, something very odd took place.

Swinging around the corner at which the two rivermen stood, came
three tow-clad farmers with a snatch of drunken song.  One of them
lurched heavily against the nearer riverman, who shoved him away with
a snarling curse.

"Who--who you shovin'?" demanded the farmer thickly.

"Git out, ye drunken fool," snapped the big riverman angrily, his eye
was still on Norton.  "Move on--we ain't got time to spend on ye."

"Whoop-ee!"--and the farmer gave vent to a wild howl of rage.
"Hurray fer Jefferson!  Damn the Democrats!  Shove me, will ye?  I'll
learn ye!  I'm a cross betwixt a streak of chain-lightning and a
bear-cat!  I was sired by a thunderbolt an' riz by an alligator an' I
eats rattlers fer breakfast--whoop-ee!"

With which peroration he gave the riverman no chance for the usual
exchange of personal history, but with an astonishingly accurate blow
for a drunken man landed his right on the riverman's jaw.  His two
companions instantly fell upon the second riverman and with a
whirlwind of blows and dust and flashing knives and yells, all five
drove out into the street and left the sidewalk clear.

"Come, sir"--and Norton felt Ayres pluck his arm.  "They will lodge
the two men in jail, but we must not be detained as witnesses."

In a flash the real meaning of the scene broke upon the Louisianian,
and with a grunt he strode off beside Ayres.  Something most amazing
must have happened in the city of Louisville, he thought.  A week
previously, mention of Blacknose had been enough to get a man his
death; now, two members of the mysterious gang were openly assaulted
in the streets!  His last view of the combat, through the gathering
crowd, showed one of the farmers perched on the body of a riverman
and industriously gouging for the eyes of his enemy in true border
fashion.

Five minutes later Norton found himself led toward a good-sized brick
house which stood back from the street amid spacious gardens.  This,
announced Ayres, belonged to Mr. Tarascon, a prominent merchant, who
expected Norton as his guest.  Comprehending dimly that the
schoolmaster must have moved with tremendous activity in his absence,
the Louisianian strode up the steps to be greeted quietly by a small
elderly Frenchman--no other than the owner of the place.  He was
unmarried, it appeared, and when Norton addressed him in his own
tongue, he cried effusively that the house no longer belonged to him
but to his honoured guest.  Moreover, the words were quite sincere.

The afternoon being practically over, Tarascon and Ayres accompanied
Norton to his room--a spacious bedroom on the ground floor, and there
left him with a darkie to attend his personal wants, and a great
variety of clothes to choose from.  With a sigh of relief, Norton
bathed and discarded his buckskin for a plum-coloured suit; he was a
gentleman once more in place of a woods rover; and when he inspected
the cravat which the grinning darkie had adjusted, he could scarce
believe that at daybreak he had been sitting in a canoe with an
acknowledged Indian-slayer, rifle in hand.  The day was far from
done, however.  When he was dressed, the negro ted him through a dark
corridor to two rooms blazing with candles: one a dining-room of
gigantic size, the other an equally large music-room.  Still blinking
at the lights, Norton found his hand gripped by Audubon and then
perceived that he had come into a gathering of men.

"Gentlemen, Captain John Norton!" announced Mr. Tarascon, and turned,
smiling.  "Perhaps you had best introduce our friends piecemeal, Mr.
Audubon!"

A dozen men were present--Colonel Taylor, Rosier, Ayres, and others
of the Louisville merchants to whom Audubon introduced the
Louisianian.  Colonel Boone had returned home to Missouri, while
Norton found that his friend, Zach Taylor, had been ordered to
Vincennes to join General Harrison; barely had he been made
acquainted with all there, however, when Colonel Taylor rose and with
a gesture obtained silence.

"Mr. Norton"--and it was easy to see that the old border fighter felt
bitterly the shame of his words--"when you were here last, this town
was in a peculiar state, sir.  As you are only too well aware, the
very name of Blacknose spread terror; men were murdered and property
destroyed almost with impunity; the secrecy of this gang of
river-pirates and its thorough organization seemed to hold us all
spellbound.  I acknowledge it with shame, sir.  Then, with your
coming, all this was changed."

As Colonel Dick paused, Norton felt himself the centre of attention.
He was himself too interested in what was coming to heed this,
however, and merely nodded.

"You had barely arrived, Mr. Norton, when an attempt was made upon
your life; a few hours later you were accused of a dastardly murder
and only the quick wit of Mr. Ayres threw the pursuers from your
track.  We had given you up for lost, sir, when Mr. Audubon returned
to town and at once communicated with Mr. Ayres.  The result, you see
here."

"I fancy I have seen the results before this," smiled Norton drily,
and told of the encounter he had witnessed in town.  A quick nod
passed around.

"We can trust every man here," declared Audubon quietly but
impressively.  "The grounds of this house are guarded by armed men,
Norton----"

"But how do you know _they_ can all be trusted?" demanded the
Louisianian keenly.

"Because, sir," spoke up Ayres, "Mr. Audubon and I enlisted them
personally.  We went up-river and carefully selected only those who
had lost brothers or sons or fathers with the boats which have
vanished down the river.  Every man of us here has sustained heavy
losses in property from the same cause.  In short, sir, we have
raised a company of Regulators, with which to exterminate this
pestilent Blacknose gang."

Norton whistled to himself, eyeing the energetic little schoolmaster
in some admiration as the whole thing broke over his mind.  So then,
they were fighting secrecy with secrecy, organization with
organization!

Now he understood a good deal which had mystified him--the words of
Kitty Grigg, the odd silence of his boatmen, the manner in which the
two bellicose rivermen had been disposed of.  Ayres had been swift
and clever, also; by enlisting only the relatives of the men who had
disappeared with their boats, during the past two years, all
possibility of treachery was removed and the "Regulators" were
certain to be animated by a live hatred of Duval--but did they know
of Duval yet?  Norton flung a quick glance around and found all
waiting for him to speak.  "How many here know who Blacknose is,
Audubon?"

The words were like a shock; Norton needed no other answer to his
question than the startled questioning look which ran over the faces
in a flash.

"Only Ayres," returned the bird-lover, gravely.  "It is a thing we
cannot prove definitely, and it would be much better to destroy the
whole gang at one blow.  We will lay our suspicions before these
friends of ours to-night, and take counsel."

While Audubon was speaking, a white-haired negro flung back the
curtains which shut off the dining-room, and now announced dinner.
Mr. Tarascon rose.

"Then--you have ascertained something definite, Mr. Norton?"

"Yes.  I may say that we have ascertained everything."

In the startled silence all grouped themselves about the long table,
Norton sitting between Tarascon and Ayres.  Then, while the deft
silent negro slaves waited upon them and the long dinner was
discussed, Norton and Audubon related what they had overheard on the
bluff near the blazed cottonwood, the Louisianian adding the
conversation between Grigg and Duval that same morning.

Being wealthy and very hospitable in a land then noted for its
inhospitality, Mr. Tarascon had provided his best wines for the
occasion, both of French and Spanish.  In consequence, certain honest
merchants, who were more accustomed to home distilled corn liquor,
drank wisely but too well of the rarer vintage; and no sooner had the
two friends finished their tale than the table leaped into wild
uproar.

For this, Norton was by no means sorry.  The issue came squarely
forward; Was it possible that Charles Duval could be in alliance with
such a gang of thieves and pirates?  To many of those present it was
hard of credence; and one estimable old merchant, who wore a high
black stock, a red peruke, and a coat cut in the fashion of the
nineties, arose and pounded the table in vinuous indignation.

"Gentlemen, I refuse to believe this monstrous concoction!" he roared
fervidly.  "I have known Charles Duval for ten years, and I knew his
father before him.  Our friend and esteemed neighbour Henry Clay, now
a member of Congress, knows him----"

"Yes, Clay knows him?" broke in a loud laugh from someone.  "Clay
knocked him down in front of the courthouse at Lexington last
summer----"

"I refuse to believe it!" continued he of the black stock.  "This
charge is not proven, my friends.  I will go and bring Charles Duval
himself to deny it to your face----"

And shaking his fist, the angry old merchant shoved back his chair
and started for the door.  Norton would have sprung up to check him,
but was restrained by Audubon's hand; the others glanced at one
another in wondering fear, bewildered.  Were the merchant to carry
out his purpose, ruin was certain to fall upon them; yet Tarascon
only sat at the head of the table and smiled as he sipped his wine.
And, as the merchant flung open the door, it was seen to be guarded
by a tall tow-clad man and barred by a rifle.

"Sir--Mr. Tarascon--what means this!" spluttered the merchant,
turning.

"It means, sir, that my cellars are wide and my caution is wider,"
returned the host with only a veiled threat.  He smiled very politely
but his eyes were keen as he glanced at the men who lined the table.

"Gentlemen," he went on quietly, "you can readily understand that
whether Mr. Norton and Mr. Audubon are correct or not in their
suspicions, no word of what we are about must come to Mr. Duval.
Each man of you here to-night is a gentleman; before you leave this
house, you pass me your words to that effect.  Else, you do not
leave.  It is very simple.  We are going to stamp out this damnable
river piracy, and I promise you that every justice shall be done Mr.
Duval.  Sir, pray return to your seat.  Boy, fetch that Oporto I had
from New Orleans last fall."

Norton, watching, perceived that he had fallen among men of weight.
Tarascon was obeyed by the angry merchant, amid a grave silence, and
Colonel Taylor was the first to pledge his word to secrecy.  One by
one the others followed suit, after which Elisha Ayres rose, pledged
Norton's health in his grandiloquent manner, and fell to discussing
the plan which he had already elaborated with Audubon.

This plan of action needed co-operation by the merchants there
gathered, and it was based upon Norton's own idea.  Brookfield's
horse-boat was to be chartered and laden with a particularly valuable
cargo, in which lading each of the merchants should risk an equal
share.  Brookfield himself was a man above suspicion, already
enrolled in Ayres's "Regulators", and willing to risk his craft in
the venture.

The boat would be another three weeks in lading, or perhaps less.
Thus ample time would be given Blacknose in which to learn of its
rich cargo and prepare an ambuscade.  At Henderson the boat would
secretly pick up twenty of the "Regulators", who would stow
themselves below-decks in readiness for an attack.

Norton was to ship openly as a passenger, spreading abroad the report
that his visit to Louisville had been barren of results, and in the
meantime he was to remain as the guest of Tarascon in Louisville.
Ayres drily assured him that he would be well guarded.  With her rich
cargo, the boat would be almost certain to be attacked; all that was
necessary was for a prisoner or two to be made, in which case they
would turn State's evidence and the rest of the gang could be hunted
down readily enough.

"Once we ascertain definitely who Blacknose is," said Audubon, "we
cut off the whole affair.  Personally, I have no doubt of the matter;
but to those of you who cannot believe Duval guilty, I would
say--wait.  This whole matter must be conducted with the greatest
secrecy; let no hint of it get to your slaves, for the gang no doubt
has many of our slaves in its pay."

"It's a good plan," stated Norton thoughtfully, frowning.  "Almost
too good, my friends.  We must not overplay our hand--do not say too
much about the rich cargo, for example.  Duval, or Blacknose, is no
fool!  The thing seems all cut and dried, and that is why I
fear--well, wait and see.  When the time comes, we can show no mercy;
that gang is pitiless, more savage than the redskins, and from the
moment Brookfield's boat casts off her moorings at Shippingsport it
becomes a war to the knife.  Well, gentlemen"--and with a smile he
rose, glass in hand--"for the rest of this evening let us cast care
aside, and so allow me to propose a toast to the gentleman whose wig
sets awry over a very excellent set of brains--Mr. Elisha Ayres,
gentlemen!"

And the toast was drunk standing, while the little schoolmaster
wriggled in huge delight and tried to straighten his greasy wig.
None the less, Norton remained thoughtful that evening--for he could
not forget the girl with gold-red hair whose hand had come to his
lips that day, and whose gage he wore inside his shirt.




CHAPTER XI

As Norton had thought, Mr. Elisha Ayres had formulated a plan which
was almost too good.  During the week following the meeting at
Tarascon's house, he found that what appeared excellent by
candlelight looked somewhat full of shreds and patches by the cold
light of day.

The Regulators, to be sure, were unobtrusive but efficient, numbering
twenty, and neither the Tarascon house nor Norton himself was ever
unguarded.  No more attempts were made upon Norton; yet the day after
that dinner-party a brawl took place in the "Steuben Arms" in which
one of the Regulators and a settler from down near the Wabash managed
to kill each other.  The settler seemed unknown in the town, which
was a significant fact.

"Public sentiment is rising, sir," observed Audubon on hearing of it
from Ayres, as they walked with Norton in the Tarascon gardens next
day.  "I would imagine that Duval is caught napping.  Most of his men
are down-river with Grigg, beyond a doubt, and while he must be
perfectly aware of something going on, he is helpless.  Further, he
is engaged in court at Lexington."

During that idle week Norton might have gone to Cincinnati had not
Brookfield been expecting to get away soon.  The lading of his boat
and the repair of her paddles had gone forward faster than had been
looked for, and now the rivermen hoped in all confidence to be off
before the following week was up.  His crew consisted of six men
only, and he could trust but two of them.

"Set the departure for next Saturday, then," commanded Norton, as he
and Ayres and Audubon consulted with Brookfield on the Monday.  "Give
our friend Duval time to make his preparations, for we must make sure
of all.  On Friday send the Regulators down the river on horseback so
that they can pass Henderson before daybreak and pick us up near
Diamond Island."

On the table was a chart of the Ohio, and Audubon broke in, placing
his finger on the Wabash settlement.

"You mind the settler who was slain last week?  He came from this
settlement, and must have been one of Duval's men.  There is a clue
for us; besides, Grigg and Duval agreed to waylay the boat near the
Wabash."

The others nodded soberly.

"Mr. Norton's idea is very good," said Ayres.  "Captain Brookfield,
set your departure for the Saturday morning.  It is only a hundred
miles to Henderson by trail, and we will send out the Regulators
Friday; they will pick you up here at Diamond Island, twelve miles
below Henderson, on the Kentucky shore beyond the plantation of Mr.
Alvis."

To this Brookfield agreed.  He would reach the island some time on
Sunday, and the Regulators would thus have plenty of time to make the
journey by land, avoiding Henderson itself.  So, with all plans fully
settled, there was naught to do save to wait and watch.

Captain Brookfield announced his departure and rushed his lading, and
with that the situation began to tighten up, Duval, having been
engaged in court at Ledington for two days, returned to town on
Wednesday; and Norton saw that with his return the lawyer had taken
swift warning of some sort.

The plot was known to a dozen citizens at most, and the little border
town remained as quiet and sleepy as ever; but beneath the surface
there was a furious boiling of the pot.  Since the double killing at
the "Steuben Arms," the Regulators had been forbidden the tavern.
Now, however, Duval openly made the place his headquarters.  He had a
plantation a few miles up-river, it seemed, but stopped at the tavern
when in town.  And on the Wednesday, Norton found the trap ready laid
for his bait.

He had been riding below the falls with Audubon, and on their return
they rode past the "Steuben Arms".  As they jogged along, Norton saw
a negro step into the tavern courtyard and loose a bird from a small
wicker cage.  At the action, he caught his friend's arms swiftly.

"That bird--watch it!  What is it?"

Audubon whistled, and watched the bird as it circled up to pick its
course, and finally shot off to the westward.  He took out his
pocket-compass, inspected it, then quietly beckoned Norton to ride on.

"Southwest by west and a half west," he returned, a flush of
excitement on his high cheeks.  "A carrier pigeon for the Wabash,
Norton!  Now ends all mystery, and the stage-players can no more fool
the audience."

"By gad!" breathed Norton softly, his brown eyes flaming out at
Audubon.  "He uses carrier pigeons, eh?  Then Duval must be
concocting his plan against the horse-boat with Grigg and the
gang--and if we could but bring down one of those pigeons we could
nip him like a flea!"

"Good," nodded the other.  "Let us come out to-morrow morning, with
that little double-barrelled gun of mine.  The birds will not fly too
high, I think."

So it came about that Norton went back to his woods garments with the
next morning.  Tarascon's slaves had greased his old buckskins, so
that the stiffness was gone from them and Norton donned them and his
fine moccasins with a feeling of joy.  At breakfast he confided to
Tarascon what his mission was.

"If we bring down a bird and find a message," he concluded, "we had
best jail Duval at once."

The other nodded quietly, his dark eyes sparkling.

"One of my slaves informed me this morning," he returned, "that Duval
was preparing for a journey--though I had said nothing to any of my
slaves.  But trust the darkies to know what's afoot!"

"It's a poor sword that has not two edges," said Norton, frowning.

"Certainly--that is just what we risk, Mr. Norton," and Tarascon
departed gloomily to his business.

Norton rode out, met Audubon and Ayres, and the three wended west of
town with rifles ready.  All that day their watching proved vain,
however, for no pigeon passed overhead save for a flock of wild
birds.  This was on the Thursday, and the horse-boat was to sail on
the Saturday.

With the next morning all three were out again, and still came no
result.  The Regulators left Louisville that morning--twenty of them,
all mounted and armed, with instructions to meet the boat at Diamond
Island, twelve miles below Henderson.  All day the three friends
watched from the riverside, but no pigeon appeared, and with the
evening Norton gave up all hope of thus cornering Duval.


Ayres and Audubon returned to the Tarascon house for dinner.  During
the meal, their host was summoned outside and returned, leading a
badly-frightened slave.

"News, my friends!" cried Tarascon eagerly.  "This boy is one of the
hostlers at the "Steuben Arms", and I have paid him to keep an eye on
Duval----"

"It's a poor sword that hasn't two edges," broke in Norton glumly.

"Confound it, cease your croaking!" exclaimed Audubon gaily.  "Out
with the news, Tarascon!  Don't heed him."

Tarascon smiled and settled into his seat, white the negro waited,
rolling his eyes in fright until the merchant tossed him a dollar.

"Now, boy, you say Mr. Duval is leaving to-morrow?"

"Yas, suh.  He done got three hosses waitin' foh him."

"Making ready for a quick trip, eh?" said Ayres.  The merchant nodded.

"Have you overheard anything about his plans, boy?"

"Yas, suh.  Ah done heard him talkin' wif a man.  He reckoned they
was gwine to beat Cap'n Brookfield's boat to Henderson, suh."

"Two of them, eh?  Anything more?"

"No, suh."

Upon this, Tarascon dismissed the slave, and the four friends
discussed the news.  They finally reached the conclusion that Duval
intended to meet the pirates and take part in the attack on the
horse-boat, after which he would doubtless flee the country, as he
must know that there was something afoot.

"So much the better," cried Audubon gaily.  "Success to the
Regulators!"

"All very well," retorted Norton.  "But I don't like this slave
business.  What we can do, Duval can do."

His forebodings were drowned in Oporto, however.  Next morning the
four again gathered at breakfast, after which all mounted and rode
through town toward Shippingsport to see Norton off.  It was early,
and few people were astir, for Brookfield was making a swift trip to
Henderson and wanted to make the most of the day.  As they passed the
"Steuben Arms," Norton sent a casual glance at the place; then he
reined in suddenly.

His quick eye had caught sight of a negro just emerging on the
courtyard, a wicker cage in his hand.  With a sudden thrill of
excitement, he spurred from the road and clattered down on the
startled slave.  The cage held a pigeon.

"Give me that bird, boy," he said, leaning over.

"Dishyer bird b' longs to Mr. Duval, suh"--and the darkie drew back.
The other three had followed Norton, however, and hemmed in the slave
so that his escape to the doorway behind was cut off.

"Watch him, Audubon!" cried Norton.

Without further parley he leaned down and grasped the cage from the
shrinking negro.  Opening it eagerly, he found a tiny slip of paper
under the bird's wing, and carefully loosened it.

A glance around showed him three saddled horses to one side, and he
knew they had been just in time.  Then, unfolding the paper, he read
the message written thereon.  It was unsigned.


    A.G.--

    Meet me as planned.  B's boat leaves to-day.  Have arranged all
    satisfactorily.  Norton goes with boat.


Silently he passed the note to Ayres, and the others crowded together
over it, while the negro watched in affright.  Ayres looked up.

"It is Duval's hand," he said, his voice quivering with excitement.
"What's to be done?"

"Seize him," said Norton curtly.  "Mr. Tarascon, will you go on to
the port and tell Brookfield that I will meet him at Diamond Island
instead of going with him from here?  Ayres, there is no court in
session now?"

"No," returned the schoolmaster.  "What would you do?"

"Take care of Duval, then ride to Henderson and catch the boat,"
snapped Norton, as the plan of action took rapid shape in his brain.
"Gentlemen, we must bring out our charges in public and lay Duval by
the heels, thus cutting off the head of the gang.  Ayres, do you
hasten and collect our friends and others at the courthouse, in the
court-room.  Audubon and I will fetch Duval.  Off with you, now!"

There was a moment of startled silence as all four realized that now
indeed the crisis had come.  Then Tarascon wheeled his horse, Ayres
followed suit, and the two swept out of the courtyard at a gallop.
Norton and Audubon dismounted.

"Take us to the chambers of Mr. Duval, boy."

The negro obeyed, trembling with fear, and the two men followed him
through the tavern to Duval's room, there dismissing him.  In
response to their knock, the lawyer himself, plainly astonished,
opened the door.  He was dressed for a journey, with pistols at his
belt, and Norton surveyed him with a grim smile.

"Mr. Duval, some time ago you proffered me your services did I desire
to draw up my will.  That time has come, and as I can find no other
lawyer and am in some haste, I beg of you to serve me."

Duval was puzzled.  He looked into Norton's grim eyes, then at
Audubon, and one hand rested on the pistol at his side.

"Do you jest, sir?" he asked coldly,

"I do not jest with you," returned Norton.  Then the hatred within
him burst all bounds, and he suddenly flung up his rifle.  "Curse
you, Duval, we've got you!  Out of there!"

His flint was up, and Duval knew better than to resist.  He came out
into the passage, coldly insolent.

"This time you have gone too far, Mr. Norton.  I follow you, but you
shall----"

"You do not follow--you go before," snarled Norton.  "Guide him,
Audubon.  I'll keep him covered."

In Norton's heart was wild triumph.  No sooner had they left the
tavern than a crowd began to assemble; while Audubon went on with
Duval, the Louisianian took their horses in hand and followed, his
rifle covering the lawyer ahead.

Ayres had already stirred the town into wild excitement, and now
Norton perceived a fresh danger as the crowd lagged on their heels.
Were it made public that Duval was none other than Blacknose, the man
would be mobbed instantly, and this must be prevented at all costs.
He was relieved to see Tarascon, returning from the port, break
through the wondering crowd and clatter to his side.

"Ride on," he said swiftly to the merchant.  "Station guards at the
courthouse doors.  This affair must not be taken out of our hands.
Allow only prominent citizens in the courtroom--ah, there is Colonel
Taylor!"

Taylor, it appeared, had ridden into town to see Norton off, and
joined them in some wonder at the scene as Tarascon departed.  It was
well he did, for the crowd, seeing that Norton held Duval a prisoner,
was uttering threats and gathering courage to rescue the supposed
victim of an assault.

The presence of Taylor held them quiet, and so the procession came to
the courthouse.  Duval must have known that his time had come, but he
walked very proudly, without a word.  Men were streaming into the
courthouse, and at the door stood Tarascon, Ayres, and two men with
rifles who pressed back the crowd.  Two more appeared to take charge
of Duval, though in some bewilderment.

Entering the courtroom itself, Norton strode to the judge's bench and
faced the assemblage, his friends beside him.  Duval was held at the
opposite side of the room.  To his surprise, Norton found the crowd
very quiet, very grave, almost to fear.  One and all were citizens of
weight and prominence.


Quietly, the Louisianian addressed them and charged Duval with being
the mysterious Blacknose, relating all his former evidence and
finally reading out the note.  After one startled gasp, the men
facing him sat quietly and listened while Audubon and Ayres sustained
the charges.

Through it all Duval stood immobile, until at length Norton looked at
him and asked if he had anything to say.  Then the lawyer drew
himself up arrogantly.

"Gentlemen"--and the deep timbre of his voice rang out proudly as all
faces turned to him--"do you not perceive how ridiculous is this
charge?  Need I say more?"

To his amazement, Norton found that the words met with silence--a
silence partly of wonder, partly of doubt.  Duval was very calm, very
powerful, holding the assemblage by the sheer force of his
personality and will.  Then a man leaped to his feet.

"Confound it, sir," he cried at Duval, "explain that note!  Explain
why----"

"I--explain?" broke in Duval ringingly.  "Guilty men explain; I do
not!  Have you not seen that this Mr. Norton hates and fears me?  Did
not his bitterness ring through every word he spoke?  My friends, I
have lived among you all my life; some of you are my clients and know
me well.  If you can think that I would thus deal with you then I
wash my hands of you, and my blood be on your heads!"

Dismayed though he was, Norton could not but admire the keen spirit
of the man.  Duval knew he was lost, yet was making a desperate
fight--for what?  A word of explanation and the crowd would have been
at his throat; instead, he defied them and they doubted everything.

A wild storm of voices arose, and as Tarascon began to quiet it for a
hearing, Norton saw Duval take a slow backward step.  The lawyer's
hands were on his pistols, and in a flash Norton caught the man's
intent.

"Stop him!" he shouted, but the words were lost.

Quick as a cat, Duval had seized the right moment.  Whirling on the
two men who guarded him, he sent one staggering with his fist; the
other he shot through the body.  As the roar of the pistol crashed
out and the doorway was hidden by smoke, Norton leaped forward.

Fighting his way through the maddened crowd of cursing shouting men,
he won to the door and sprang through the corridor to the outer
doorway, Audubon at his heels.  Too late!  He caught another
pistol-shot and saw Duval galloping away down the street like mad.

Norton flung up his rifle and fired from the steps, over the heads of
the shouting crowd, who were scattering in alarm.  Duval's steed gave
a leap, but the lawyer pressed him onward; the next instant a surge
of men swept up and the mob met those crowding out from the
courthouse.

"Blacknose!  Duval is Blacknose!"

A wild savage yell shrilled up at the words.  At the same instant
Norton felt Audubon's hand on his arm.

"Out the back way!" said the bird-lover excitedly.  "We will get
horses and after him.  Ayres has gone for the steeds.  Quickly!"

And cursing all things in his bitterness, Norton turned and fought
clear of the crowd.




CHAPTER XII

Within a short half-hour of Duval's dramatic--and tragic--escape from
the courthouse, Norton and Audubon were at the head of a dozen
well-mounted men, led horses with them, and they left Louisville at a
gallop along the post road.

Duval, it was learned, had gained the "Steuben Arms" and had then
galloped off with his three horses, one other man with him--a
riverman, who was evidently of the gang.

Behind, the town was in a ferment, but Norton galloped along in grim
silence.  In his party were Ayres, Tarascon, and Colonel Dick Taylor;
all had steeds of the best and all were driven by the same flame of
rage which burned in Norton's heart.

Yet not the same.  Norton knew they must catch Duval before Henderson
was reached, in order that the gang might have no warning; but he was
thinking more of Kitty Grigg than of the gang itself.  Did Duval get
away, he would doubtless carry out the attack on the horse-boat, and
the gang would then scatter with their loot.  At least, such would be
the intention, for so far as Norton knew, Duval was ignorant of the
plot to trap the gang; nothing had been said of it at the courthouse.

The fourteen men galloped along the post road toward Sullivan's
ferry, and there was no sparing of horseflesh that morning.  Norton
set a terrific pace, and with a thunder of hoofs they swept into the
little settlement at the ferry and found Sullivan himself.

"Two men and three horses--which way?"

"Henderson road, twenty minutes since," shouted Sullivan.  "What's
the matter?"

"Blacknose!  Duval is Blacknose!"

With the yell, Norton dug in his moccasined heels and once more they
galloped away, leaving the ferryman staring after them in wild
surmise.  The lawyer had a good start, and his horses were of the
best.

With the thought of Kitty Grigg pounding at his heart in time with
the thunder of hoofs behind, Norton rode on like a madman.  Did Duval
escape, the girl would be in his power.

"He shall not escape," vowed Norton inwardly.  "Faster!"

And again he urged his mount to fresh efforts, his led horse pounding
at his side.  Behind, the fourteen were strung out along the uneven
blazed trail in frantic pursuit.

They were following a "trace" which struck southwest to avoid the
windings of the river, for it was thus that their quarry had gone.
The road was not worthy the name, yet was the shortest route to
Henderson.

"Hold up, man--hold up!" came the voice of Audubon.  "You'll kill our
steeds at this rate!"

"When they die, your led horses remain," flung back Norton, and dug
in his heels once more.  His beast was white with foam already, but
held to its steady gallop; all the horses were finely bred, out of
the best blue-grass country around Louisville, and could be depended
on till the last.

Without slacking the mad gait, Norton drew in his second horse;
flinging his leg over the saddle, he changed seats successfully.  It
was a splendid bit of horsemanship, but his followers could not
emulate it.

"Hold up, Norton!" roared Taylor.  "Wait for us to change----"

"I'm after Duval," he retorted, and looked around.  "Let the rest
wait!"

Half the fourteen were already drawing rein, preparing to change
their mounts; Audubon alone swung to his spare horse at full gallop,
and pounded on with a ringing laugh.

Five minutes later Norton saw a man standing in the road ahead, and
drew in slightly.  The man was a settler, watching them in staring
wonder.

"Anyone passed?" flung out Norton, pulling up.

"Two men--three horses, fifteen minutes since," came the answer.
"What's gwine on----?"

"After them!" shouted Norton, and loosened his reins.

Mile after mile wound past.  They were in the full wilderness now,
the "trace" being nothing but a rudely blazed trail winding amid
girdled trees and short stumps.  Settlers were scarce and the road
was little travelled, but as Norton whipped into a branch and leaned
down, he could see hoof-marks in the soil beneath him, and the sight
lent him fresh eagerness.

A yell and a crash from behind made him twist about in the saddle.
Two of his men had smashed together and gone down in a mad heap;
another plunged full into them; the rest leaped clear.  It required
skill to follow that road at full speed, but Norton never slackened.

Ever at his flank rode Audubon, rifle on saddle, while Ayres and
Taylor followed next.  Tarascon had fallen behind; looking back after
a little, Norton saw the merchant's horse falling, and sent back a
wild laugh.

"_Sauve qui peut_!  After them!"

Twenty miles on their way, and still ten men rode with Norton as he
topped a crest and swung down toward a dipping bowl of bottom-land,
strewn with canebrakes.  Even as he glimpsed the danger, Audubon
shouted:

"'Ware, Norton!  They've fired the canes!"


A low drift of smoke was rising from the road below where it struck
through a patch of canes.  Norton saw it, but sent his horse onward
in grim resolve.  The fire was newly started; five minutes later and
they must have gone around through the swamps.

His staring-eyed horse never faltered beneath his hand, but went
driving at the smoke-veil.  The led beast tried to tug free and all
but tore the Louisianian from his saddle, but he dragged savagely on
the reins and all went well.  One horrible choking moment, and they
were through; on the rising ground beyond, he drew up and again
changed saddles.

Ayres and Audubon followed, then Colonel Taylor, whose spare beast
had broken away.  Four more came through, but as a puff of wind
lifted the smoke Norton could see the rest vainly trying to drive
their maddened steeds at the fire.  He laughed a little.

"After them!  Duval can't last at this pace!"

Ten minutes later Taylor's horse foundered and the old border fighter
fell behind, swearing volubly.  Now there were but six men after
Norton, and a little later they perceived how desperate was Duval's
plight when they came upon a dying horse in the road, still saddled.

"After them!" shouted Norton again.

Duval and his companion had but three horses at the start, and had
killed one of those; with luck, the chase would now be short.
Norton's steeds were both white with foam, trembling as they pounded
onward, but there was good distance in them yet, and his changes kept
them fairly freshened.

Still the miles thundered behind them, and now there were but five
men at his heels, for one had gone down.  Audubon shouted out as they
dipped down toward another canebrake.

"Five miles more and we get fresh horses!  There's a tavern where
they keep changes----"

His words were drowned in a scream from one of the men close behind.
Up from the canebrake a hundred yards ahead drifted a little fleck of
white; in the road lay a struggling horse.

"Run to earth!" yelled Norton, never looking back at the man who
dragged in his stirrup, shot through the heart.  "On them!"

He knew his mistake the next moment, however.  Duval was not run to
earth yet; it was his companion whose horse had gone down, and who
had thus tempted fate.  Norton went into the canes with a wild leap;
he plunged on the riverman before the latter could reload.

The riverman, a tall bearded scoundrel, flashed up a pistol at Norton
and the bullet flew through his hair.  The Louisianian rode him down;
the horse stumbled at the impact, and Norton went over the brute's
head into the muck.  Rising, he heard a rifle bang out and caught his
steed's bridle over the relaxing body of the riverman.  Ayres lowered
his rifle, white-faced.

"No hurt," cried Norton.  "After him!"

Remounting, he caught his other horse and pounded on, his sole
thought a savage desire to get at Duval.  Besides Audubon and Ayres,
but two others were left; one of these was mired a mile farther on,
and they swept away from him before he could change beasts.

Good though the horses were, they were staggering terribly.  The
Louisianian was wild with impotent rage; he knew well that Duval
would secure a fresh mount at the tavern ahead, and would get the
best.  With a frenzy of curses he drove on his steed, let his spare
horse drop behind, saw Ayres pull up with a cry of despair, and
thundered on over the last mile, hoping against hope.

And all in vain.  The tavern was a low building set in a clearing,
barns and tobacco sheds behind, and just beyond was a clump of
settlers' cabins.  As they came in sight of the place, still a
half-mile distant, Norton had plain sight of a figure riding from the
tavern at full gallop.  With a groan he turned a drawn face to
Audubon.

"How far to Henderson?"

"Fifty miles--we have come half-way, and the day is dying."

With a start, Norton perceived that the afternoon was indeed well
forward.  While the reeling horses galloped on, he turned to the
bird-lover and directed him to secure fresh beasts.

"We'll get food and eat it later"--and he nodded toward the remaining
man, a Scotch farmer from above Louisville.  The latter grunted, and
so they swept up to the squalid tavern.

Its proprietor, an open-mouthed, staring person, met their quick
demands with a slow shake of the head, watching them slip to the
ground.  Before he could reply to them, Norton had shoved him aside
with an impatient oath and strode on into the tavern, the Scotch
farmer at his heels.

In the kitchens out behind the main building they found negro slaves
at work, and amid frightened screams Norton seized what food was in
sight.  Flinging down a dollar in payment, Norton led the way back.

Negroes were already leading out half a dozen horses from a near-by
pasture while Audubon pacified the tavern-keeper with a gold-piece.
In five minutes the saddles were transferred, and the three set out
at a breakneck gallop on their new mounts, eating as they rode.


The difference in horses was instantly apparent to Norton.  Although
he urged the beasts relentlessly, when darkness fell they had caught
no further glimpse of Duvai.  Even his desperate frenzy was forced to
give way before the gathering shadows.

"Hold up or you'll be brained," cried Audubon as a bough nearly took
Norton out of the saddle.  "This is rank madness, man!"

The Louisianian refused to listen, but pressed on.  Five minutes
later his horse went down in a mud-hole, its leg broken, while he
himself received a nasty fall against a stump.

Sobered by the pain and the shaking-up, he shot the poor beast and
mounted his spare steed, riding on at a slower pace and in gloomy
silence For an hour the three proceeded more slowly, until a
glimmering against the horizon announced the rising moon.

"Duval is in the same boat," observed Audubon.  "We can be sure that
he'll keep the trail, for it's his only hope."

Norton did not reply.  Duval must keep to the "trace" indeed; unless
he passed Henderson ahead of them he was lost.  His only hope lay in
meeting his own gang or else in getting down the river ahead of his
pursuers by means of a boat or canoe.

When the moon came up at length, Norton renewed the chase at a
gallop, and the freshened horses responded nobly to his urgings.  It
was sheer madness to go sweeping through the dark woods at that pace,
but Norton was far past caring.

"Kitty Grigg!  Kitty Grigg!"

The name pounded through his heart with the pound of the hoofs on the
dew-wet turf.  He was just changing saddles at midnight, when the
Scotchman drew up alongside, spent.

"Take my fresh horse, Mr Norton.  This beastie o' mine is done, and
I'll be done, too, in anither hour."

Norton nodded, and with a word to Audubon, rode on.  Out of all the
fourteen who had thundered out of Louisville, he and his friend alone
were left.  To judge from his own stiffened and wearied body, Audubon
must be made of iron to stand the pace.

With three led horses, they did not spare the brutes while the
moonlight lasted, one of the mounts foundering an hour later.  At
last the moon died into the darkness preceding dawn, and with only
the horses they rode left to them, they drew up for a brief rest.

"We must be hard on Henderson," said Norton shortly, lighting his
pipe, for he would not sleep.

"Ten miles from there, I think," responded Audubon "There's a fork in
the trail somewhere ahead.  One trace goes to Henderson; the other
proceeds to the river near Diamond Island, I believe."


With the first gleam of grey in the sky, they were up and off; and
now as the daylight increased, Norton again urged the poor steeds to
the utmost.

An hour after dawn Audubon halted him with a shout, and just beyond
them he perceived that the trail bent around to the north, a fainter
trail continuing from it to the left and west.  He pulled up and
dismounted stiffly.

"By gad!  Audubon, which trail for Henderson?"

"The northern."

"Then we've got him!  He's gone on to strike the river, and here are
the marks where the Regulators turned off to Henderson yesterday!"

Norton leaped into his saddle and his jaded steed again took up the
road.  The other horse was spent, however.  A mile farther on, and
Norton turned at a cry to see Audubon go down.

"I'm done!" shouted Audubon, scrambling to his feet.  "On, Norton!
Good luck!"

For a bare instant the Louisianian hesitated, then dug in his heels
and sent his sobbing beast ahead, his face grim.  Everything now
depended on him alone.

It was Sunday morning, he knew, and he wondered if there were any
church-bells in Henderson.  His horse was staggering now, and he had
to watch closely lest he be sent headlong into the trees.

The Regulators had arrived at Henderson yesterday, according to the
trail.  No doubt they had passed through town or avoided it, going on
along the river-bank to Diamond Island, where there was a large
plantation.  Then, with the miles slipping behind, Norton caught a
gleam of water ahead and greeted it with a hoarse shout.  The Ohio!

His beast coughed, straddled out, and sagged down.  Norton slipped to
the ground, rifle in hand, and with stiffened, stumbling feet ran
forward, pouring a fresh priming in the pan as he ran.  Where were
the Regulators?  Where was Duval?  Where was Red Hugh?  Had the
wilderness trail swallowed them all?

Gasping and sobbing for breath, he followed the faint track to the
water's edge, broke out from the last trees, and found himself on the
river's brink.  Then he uttered a groan of dismay and sank down,
panting.  Far down the stream, with a single man paddling furiously,
was a canoe; as he looked, it swept around the lower end of the
island and vanished.

Duval had escaped.


Slowly Norton pulled himself together.  Twenty feet away was a horse,
gasping out its life beside the river; Duval must have known where a
canoe lay cached.  From where he was, Norton had an excellent view of
Diamond Island and the river.

He was a mile below the ferry and the upper end of the island, which
was diamond-shaped.  Henderson lay twelve miles up-river.  The
island, partly timbered and partly under cultivation, was four miles
in length, and the stream in front of Norton was a quarter of a mile
in width.

Suddenly, staggering a little, he sprang to his feet.  Up the river
he had made out a shape impossible to mistake; Brookfield's
horse-boat was floating down the swift current, keeping close to the
Kentucky shore, and it was a scant half-mile above--he had come just
in the nick of time, then!

Norton remembered that the boat was to have started from Henderson
that morning, and also that Red Hugh had promised to meet it near the
head of Diamond Island.  Was he aboard, then, with the Regulators?

Norton watched the ungainly craft as it came down.  He saw sweeps put
out and knew that he had been observed, for the craft slowly forged
in toward him.  Brookfield was standing in the bow, and beside him
was a tall figure which Norton recognized with a thrill of wild
relief.  Red Hugh had kept his word!

Slowly the craft neared the bank, and Norton waded out through the
shallows to meet her.  At length he came near enough to grip the hand
of Red Hugh and so clambered up over the rail as the crew pushed the
boat out again.  For a moment he sat helpless, weak and unstrung,
looking around.  He saw the six men of the crew, but there was no
sign of the Regulators.

"All is well?" he asked hoarsely as Brookfield strode over and helped
him to his feet.  "Have the Regulators come aboard?"

"All is well--but what mean you about the Regulators?" queried the
other, in seeming surprise.

"Eh?"  Norton stared at him, tottering at the knees and clutching at
Red Hugh for support.  "Are you crazed?  They were to have met you at
the island----"

"Your pardon, sir, but I have Mr Ayres's writing otherwise"--and
Brookfield hastily produced a folded paper.  Norton took it, still
a-stare, trying to pull himself together and meet the situation.

"By gad, sir, one of us must be mad, then!" he broke out, and turned
on Red Hugh.  "What's all this, Hugh?  Where did you get aboard?"

"A mile up-stream, by the ferry."

"For God's sake, sir," broke in the captain, terrible fear on his
countenance, "read that note which Ayres sent me at Henderson!"

"He sent you none," cried Norton wildly, and opened the paper.  He
saw the same writing which he had seen in the note taken from the
carrier-pigeon--the writing of Charles Duval, though the note was
signed by another name.


    Captain Brookfield.

    Sir:--The plans are changed.  The Regulators will not come aboard
    your boat but will follow after in a skiff.  Do you proceed and
    leave all to me.

    ELISHA AYRES.


Norton looked up, and all things were in a haze before his eyes.
Dimly he realized that there had been awful treachery somewhere;
dimly he remembered how he had warned Tarascon against the slaves.
He tried to speak, but only a hoarse murmur came from his lips.

Duval had tricked them--tricked them!  He had known their plot all
along and had set a counterplot with devilish ingenuity; this note
must have been waiting at Henderson for a day or two----

With a terrible effort to warn Brookfield, Norton screamed out
something and fell in a heap as his knees gave way.  The strain and
the shock had mastered him, and he lay senseless on the deck while
the others stared, ignorant of what had chanced, and the horse-boat
swept on down-stream.




CHAPTER XIII

A trickle of whisky through his lips brought Norton to his senses.  A
terrible lassitude had come upon him, but he shook it off with an
effort and sat up in the arms of Red Hugh.

Brookfield was standing, watching him, biting at his moustache in
anxiety.  Behind them Diamond Island was fast slipping into the
distance, while the boat's crew was watching Norton from afar,
curiously.  He looked out at the three-mile stretch of wide river,
saw the clustered settlements which lined the banks on the opposite
shore, and then--remembered.

"That letter was forged," he said slowly, striving to force himself
into coherent calm.  Brookfield jumped at the word.

"Forged--impossible!" he returned swiftly.  "Why, Mr. Norton, I met
two of the Regulators at Henderson last night, and they themselves
said they had been recalled by Mr. Ayres and yourself----"

"Duped!" murmured Norton, and compressed his lips.  Duval had sent
another note to the Regulators, then!  Had probably sent it days
ahead!

The whole thing now lay plain before his mind.  Cunning as a fox,
Duval had known of their scheme almost from the first, beyond a
doubt.  Thinking that Norton would embark on the boat as originally
planned, he had forged the letter from Ayres, together with another
to the Regulators.  Thus Norton and the richly-laden craft together
would come into the hands of Grigg and the gang.  Naturally, he could
not have foreseen what had happened at the last moment.

Carefully and slowly, Norton told the other two what had taken place
in Louisville, of that terrible ride, and lastly of how Duval must
have tricked them all around.  When he had finished, Red Hugh was
plucking thoughtfully at his beard while Brookfield was staring at
him in alarmed dismay.  For this, Norton did not quite see the reason.

"It is not yet too late to repair matters, even though our plans have
gone awry," he stated, as new hope began to creep through him.  He
got to his feet, shakily.  After all, there was no great hurry.
Thank heaven, he had been able to meet Brookfield and so warn him in
time!

"How--repair matters?" frowned the captain.

"Why, 'tis simple enough"--and Norton essayed a faint smile.  "We'll
merely get back against the current to Henderson and take the
Regulators aboard----"

"Think you I carry horses on my down voyage?" asked Brookfield, the
veins in his stolid face standing out under his stress of emotion as
he spoke.  "Man, to get back is impossible!  With only nine of us
aboard in all, we could never row this craft upstream, and I have no
horses to work the machinery."

Norton nodded, grasping the point, and looked out across the bulwark.
They were now some seven miles below Diamond Island, and another
island was in sight ahead.  There seemed to be few settlements below.

"Well, then, we had best tie up at the first settlement which we
reach, Captain Brookfield.  There we can either take some extra men
aboard to serve in place of the Regulators, or else you can tie up
and wait till I can get back to Henderson for our own men----"

"That would take too long," broke in Red Hugh, speaking almost for
the first time.  "True, we might take some extra men aboard, but we
know not whom we can trust down here.  And Duval is ahead of us, eh?"

Norton nodded.  Duval had probably crossed over to the Indiana shore,
for they had caught no sight of him.  At this juncture the sadly
bewildered Brookfieid left them, to take charge of the island
passage, and the Louisianian despatched Red Hugh in search of food
and drink.

While he was making a hearty meal, which put new strength and life
into his jaded body, Brookfield rejoined the two of them, and all
discussed the situation, which began to assume rather alarming
proportions.

Norton's suggestion was the most conservative.  By tying up at one of
the settlements they could take men aboard, and might find
trustworthy men who could be initiated into the whole plot.  Red
Hugh, however, who had seemed to awaken thoroughly to the affair, now
made a counter-proposal.

"Gentlemen, we are by no means cowards, I believe," he said, his
deep-set grey eyes flaming a little as he spoke.  "We are not so far
from the Wabash at present.  How about it, sir?"

Brookfield nodded gravely.

"Some twenty miles, for Slim Island is just ahead.  Why?"

"Well, it seems to me that from what Captain Norton says," went on
Red Hugh calmly, "all escape is cut off to Duval in the rear.  He
cannot well return to Louisville but must go on to Louisiana if he is
to get away--and he must do so before this boat or others get down
the river to give warning of him.  And since it is most like that his
gang has their camp somewhere near the Wabash, the militia would
speedily make an end of him now that the secret of Blacknose is
known."

"True enough," assented Norton.  "Though he might also escape by way
of Vincennes and Detroit to Canada.  But what next?"

"Why should we not continue as we first planned?" said Red Hugh
deliberately.  "We will pass the Wabash by nightfall, so let us
continue without pausing to tie up to-night, and if we run past
Duval, so much the better.  We can give warning of him at the lower
settlements; at Fort Massac--"

"And from Fort Massac we can quarter back with men to find him,"
broke in Norton hastily.

"But what if he attacks us on the way?" argued the worried
Brookfield.  "He will know that we bear news of him, after all that
has chanced behind us.  He will not easily allow us to escape to bear
this news down-river and so cut off all his chances----"

"Let him attack!" said Red Hugh boldly.  "Not all of your crew are
traitors, and Mr. Norton and I can keep good watch!  Those dogs have
only dared to destroy in the dark; one shot, and they will turn
tail----"

"I doubt it," interrupted Norton drily.  "Duval is no coward."  He
said no more for a little, but looked over the water with a frown.


Somewhere in that wilderness was Kitty Grigg, and practically in the
power of Duval.  Up to a certain extent, he believed Abel Grigg would
protect her; but that protection would not go far with such a man as
Duval.  At thought of how he had failed in his task, of how he had
been outwitted and snared and duped, he groaned inwardly.  A great
weariness closed in upon him, and he turned haggard eyes on the two
men beside him.

"Settle it as you will," he said slowly.  "I care not, gentlemen; I
must have sleep.  Whatever decision you reach, I will agree to it.
Now show me a place to sleep in peace, Brookfield."

The anxious-eyed riverman nodded and led him forward to a cabin,
where Norton turned in on a bunk and was asleep instantly.

While he rested, the other two discussed the situation for an hour or
more.  Brookfield was in dread anxiety for his ship and cargo,
bitterly regretting that he had ever entered upon the venture.  Red
Hugh, in some contempt, stuck firmly to it that his plan was the best.

In the end, his insistence overbore the hesitation of the other, who
helplessly consented to continue the voyage.  After all, they were
not far behind Duval, and there was a good chance that they might
slip past down the river before the gang would expect them.
Moreover, by not stopping they would not be so liable to attack as
they would be if tied up over-night after the usual river fashion.

Of the six men who composed the crew, Brookfield could trust two of
them, brothers, to the death; of the other four he was by no means so
certain.  Once the decision had been reached, Red Hugh instructed
these two men to sleep on deck that night with their rifles ready at
hand.

Toward sunset Norton was aroused, and came on deck to find that they
were just approaching Wabash Island.  They passed by the Indiana
sound, and when darkness fell the Wabash itself lay behind them and
Brookfield breathed more freely.

The Louisianian agreed to the proposed plan.  Red Hugh took watch
until midnight, but as Norton no longer felt the need of sleep after
his day-long slumber, he remained on deck with the hunter.

Brookfield himself slept little.  He was exceedingly anxious for the
safety of his craft, and after an hour of sweeping along through the
pitch darkness, his over-wrought nerves went to pieces.

"Gentlemen," he broke out nervously, approaching Norton and Red Hugh
as they were smoking together in the bow, "I can stand this no
longer!  I beg of you, let us set in to the bank and be done with
this strain!  We need fear no attack here; we are just above
Shawneetown, in a well-settled district, and not even Blacknose would
take the chance of making an attack on us here."

Red Hugh was furiously angry, but Norton quieted him.  He saw that
the responsibility for ship and lading had quite unnerved Brookfield,
and felt sorry for the man.  Moreover, it looked very much as though
Duval would never dare an attack in this well-settled district of the
river.

That their plans were turned topsy-turvy mattered nothing to him.  He
was indifferent as to what course was adopted, and said so.

"If it will please you to seek the bank, then do it," he said
quietly.  "It seems there may be danger in whatever we do, so do you
act as you think best in the matter, Captain Brookfield."

With obvious relief, the latter quickly routed out his men and set
them at the sweeps, grumbling and cursing.  Red Hugh went to his bunk
in the cabin in huge disgust with everyone in general; Norton,
however, remained on deck, determined to watch the night out at least.

The boat was fetched close in to the Indiana shore and after
carefully sounding the channel, Brookfield at last tied her up to a
huge jutting tree.  Norton ascertained that they were three miles
above Shawneetown, which was a large settlement of nearly thirty
cabins, and that Brookfield's spirits had now bounded high above any
thought of danger.

None the less, Norton stayed in the bow, one of the two trusted men
agreeing to keep watch in the stern, for he would take no chances.
The night was peaceful, warm, and rippling; had it not been for Kitty
Grigg, the Louisianian would have been more than content to pursue
his journey to the south and let Duval be dealt with later.  He had
already resolved to leave the boat at Fort Massac; with Red Hugh, he
could work back on a scout along the----


Whether the horse-boat had been watched and followed, or whether her
riding-light had betrayed her position, Norton never knew for
certain.  He was just filling his pipe afresh when all his dreams
were shattered abruptly.

From the shadows aft beneath the horse-gallery there flitted a little
sparkle of steel in the moonlight, and a knife thudded into the
bulwark between his uplifted arm and his side.

Norton dropped his pipe with a crash, and fell back motionless, his
hand on his rifle.  Every sense was on the alert instantly, every
fragment of woodcraft to the fore.  From the shore he heard nothing
except the soft ripple of waves, but there was a low murmur aft, and
the sound of wood striking on wood, as though a boat had ground into
the stern.  The man on guard there, Norton concluded swiftly, must
have been finished off by another knife.

Suddenly and softly, a man appeared crawling forward in the shadow of
the port bulwark, watching his recumbent figure; Norton recognized
one of the crew.  Quietly he shifted his rifle as he lay, hot rage
swelling within him.  A moment later the man's body came in line with
the sights, and Norton pulled trigger.

The roar of the shot blew the night quiet to shreds.  The riverman
gave one convulsive spring and dropped half across the bulwark, where
he lay motionless.  Norton leaped up with a shout of alarm.

"Brookfield!  Hugh!  On deck!"

Then he dropped behind a huge tobacco hogshead as another shot split
the night and the bullet sang past his ear.  From somewhere aft there
came a wild confusion of voices, oaths, and the scuffle of feet.
Norton feverishly reloaded, taking the pistol from his belt also.
Beyond all doubt, Blacknose had struck.

The next moment, while he was still ramming his bullet home, a swarm
of dark figures appeared rushing forward, along the port side of the
deck.  A shot and the roar of Brookfield's stentorian voice sounded
from the stern.  Norton caught up his pistol and discharging it into
the mass of figures stopped them momentarily; he was answered by a
scattering fire which swept above him harmlessly.

Upon that, the whole craft leaped into a mad swirl of fighting
yelling men in utter confusion.  Brookfield appeared on the
horse-galley up above the deck, his pistols in hand, and he fired
down twice into the crowd.  A dozen shots replied, and Norton saw him
reel and go down.

With a rush, the assailants now came at him in the bow.  By this time
the Louisianian had re-primed, and without hesitation he flung up his
long rifle and fired at short range.

He had got two of the pirates in line, and both went down with a
yell; at the same instant there swelled up a wild war-whoop, and the
tall figure of Red Hugh appeared in the moonlight.  As his yell
shrilled high, he fired into the group of men; instead of breaking
before him, they closed on him instantly.  Red Hugh's prediction was
proving terribly false, Norton thought swiftly.

Somewhere the cold terrible voice of Duval was directing the attack.
Norton had no more chance to reload.  Other dark figures came running
forward, and a moment later Red Hugh on the fore-deck and Norton in
the bow were surrounded by a whirl of fighting men.

For a little, Norton almost believed that they would clear the ship
unaided.  Both were fighting with clubbed rifles, and the long
six-foot guns made terrific weapons for such close work.  The pirates
must have emptied their own guns, for they fired no more shots, and
there was no chance to reload; the battle had become hand to hand,
savage in its brutality.

Twice Norton swept his gun-butt down full upon a man, and each time
the pirate went down like an axed ox with his skull crushed; the
Louisianian was now fighting for his life, and realized it
thoroughly.  A tomahawk struck him and fell to the deck with a clang,
thrown unskilfully; Norton leaped forward and whirled his rifle on
the thrower with all his strength.

As he did so, his foot slipped and he half-fell; the rifle came down
on a hogshead and shattered in his hands.  With one savage yell of
exultation, the enemy closed in upon him.


Then, out of the turmoil of blows and shouts and curses, rose the
clear laugh of Norton as his foes drew back.  He was on one knee,
pressed against the bulwark, but he held knife and tomahawk in hand,
and somewhere ir the press before him he had caught sight of Duval.
The man's face goaded him, and while his foes drew back a pace,
Norton laughed again and leaped into the midst of them, striking
savagely.

His weapons flashed and bit in the moonlight, and with a thrill he
heard the war-whoop of Red Hugh rising again.  His assailants were
all masked save for Duval, whom he had not seen again; the next
instant, however, he caught sight of Grigg coming at him.

There was no mistaking the man's size and figure, despite his mask
and the black paint which covered his face and clotted his beard.
From one side a clubbed rifle swung down on Norton; he warded it off,
and seeing that the man was one of the treacherous crew-members,
flung out his tomahawk.  The keen edge bit into the man's brain and
he went down.  Then Grigg was leaping out.

Whirling, Norton ducked the knife-thrust.  There was no chance to use
his own weapon, and as he swung around he brought up his fist, closed
on the knife-haft, and drove it straight into Grigg's beard.  All
Norton's weight was behind the blow, and the big man went down with a
single groan, caught full on the point of the chin and knocked
senseless.

In the same moment, Norton realized that all was lost.  A wild yell
of triumph had quavered up, and now a solid mass of men came charging
down on him.  Red Hugh had been overcome at last.  Then, as Norton
drew back and faced the snarling ring of savage masks and weapons,
the uproar quieted with unexpected suddenness to the cold voice of
Duval.

"Quiet, boys!"

He stepped forth, unarmed, dominant, terrible.  Norton, his chest
heaving and with a wild riot of sheer hatred surging high in his
brain, watched the man as there fell deep silence--a silence broken
only by the groaning of wounded men and the peaceful ripple of water.

"Surrender, Mr. Norton," said Duval calmly.  "You----"

"Dog!" snarled Norton, mad with rage and with the pain of his wounds
and bruises.  "Yellow dog!"

And dropping his knife, he sprang out upon Duval, for there was no
thought of surrender in his mind.  A single yell of warning from the
circle of men; then the two were fighting like madmen with their bare
fists.

Try as he would, Norton found his blows blocked, while Duval's fists
hammered home upon him terrifically.  Slowly his rage cooled of its
flaming fury, and with new caution he realized that this was no
common adversary.  He staggered into a clinch, desperate.

A moment more, and Norton felt savage joy as he began to drive his
fists into Duval's face and felt himself slowly mastering the other.
Back went Duval--and back again, with Norton sending in relentless
blows, while the lawyer fought back in grim silence.

Then a sudden low growl swept the watching circle as Duval reeled and
clutched out at the air.  Too late, Norton saw a rifle thrust between
his legs.  He tripped, and as he did so three men flung themselves on
him bodily.

At last he went to the deck--pummelled, covered with slight
knife-wounds, but still fighting savagely.  Little by little they
pinned him down, drew hands and feet together, bound him fast.

Brookfield's horse-boat was captured.




CHAPTER XIV

Norton was badly battered.  More than one knife had nicked his flesh,
and Duval's fists had given him a badly cut lip and a bruised and
bleeding face, but he was hurt in no vital place.  Now, as he lay
bound, for the first time he began to take coherent stock of the
river-pirates.

Three of the boat-crew had been of the gang; the others, with
Brookfield, were dead.  Two of the traitors had also fallen and with
them five more of the gang; three others lay sorely wounded.  Besides
these, eight sound men remained, with Grigg and Duval.  Red Hugh had
been stunned, and for some reason both he and Norton were not knifed
as they lay.  Instead, they were lifted and carried down into one of
the four large skiffs at the stern of the horse-boat.

With them were placed the three wounded men, and then the others fell
to work under orders from Grigg, now recovered from Norton's blow.

The four skiffs were drawn up alongside, and the best of the cargo
was rapidly transferred from the larger boat.  Helpless, Norton
watched operations; now that the work had been carried through, the
men had removed their masks.

All appeared to be either woodsmen or settlers, men of the roughest
and most brutal type on the border.  From their snatches of talk he
gathered that they had made a common settlement on the upper reaches
of the Saline River.  This was in a purely Indian country, where the
last remnants of the once powerful Ohio tribes had gathered under
protection of the still more powerful Shawnees.

"We'll git them thar Miamis on the rampage," observed one of the
pirates at work above him, with a coarse laugh.  "Ought to have one
more high ol' time afore we split up, eh?"

"Got to use up that licker," growled another in assent.  "What's the
chief goin' to do with them two fellers?"

The answer, fortunately, was lost on Norton.  It was just as well for
his own peace of mind that he gained no inkling of Duval's plan till
later.

With the best of Brookfield's rich cargo stowed away in the four
skiffs, the eight sound men piled down into one of them; by grim
irony that cargo which was to have served for a lure had now been
taken by the intended victim, and Norton writhed in his bonds at the
thought.  The boat in which he lay, with Red Hugh and the wounded,
was taken in tow with the other two; Grigg descended among the men
and took charge, and last of all came Duval.  Even before he came,
Norton saw why he had lingered, and what was intended.

As the four skiffs pulled out and drew away in a slow line, the
horse-boat slowly drifted out into the stream, her lines severed.
The moon had by this time gone down, but looking back, Norton saw a
burst of flames from the boat.  She drifted away with her load of
dead, the fire rising high into a pyramid of flame and smoke above
her ungainly shape.

Then they were passing out of the river by a narrow channel, and to
his surprise the Louisianian found that this led into a good-sized
lake, some ten miles across.  The eight men who occupied the forward
boat rowed steadily through the darkness, Grigg giving them low
directions; there was a faint glare on the horizon, denoting the
burning craft they had abandoned.  After an hour or more of this
progress, they drew in to a low shore ahead.

Norton was lifted and flung on shore, and as Red Hugh was sent after
him, he saw that the latter had recovered consciousness.  Then, while
the cargoes were being transferred to wagons, Grigg and Duval engaged
in a swift discussion as to the disposal of the wounded men.

"I won't have them around the camp at this juncture," came the cold
tones of the lawyer.  "When this business has been finished we'll
have to separate and had best start here.  Send two men with the
wounded over to Kentucky in one boat, and sink the other three here
as usual."

So two of the raiders rowed off with the three wounded men, these
being unable to ride.  The other boats were sunk under the
shore-trees, and with their trail covered behind them, the raiders
started.  Norton and Red Hugh were lifted to a wagon, just as the
grey dawn was breaking.

The Louisianian was too firmly bound to dream of getting free, and
attempted no converse with his companion.  Having fallen between two
huge sacks of flax, he could see nothing and at last dropped into a
troubled sleep, broken at short intervals by the jolting of the wagon.

Toward noon the first and only halt of the journey took place; and
here occurred an incident which to Norton seemed slight enough at the
time, but which was destined to have tremendous consequences later.


The stop had been made near a rude cabin built beside a spring, and
when Norton had been lifted out of the wagon, he saw that it was an
Indian clearing.  The redskin farmer and his squaw were being forced
into cooking for the party, whom they seemed both to hate and fear,
probably with good cause.

Red Hugh lay beside Norton on the ground, watching grimly, in
silence.  Indeed, the old man had said no word that morning, and in
his silent watching and his motionless endurance Norton read a tacit
menace of strength restrained.  Duval sent the Indian squaw to feed
the prisoners some cornpone, refusing to loosen their bonds, while
one of the men stood guard.

As the woman bent over them, Norton heard Red Hugh murmur something
in the Indian tongue.  The guard stopped him harshly, but the
wrinkled squaw looked at Norton, then started at sight of his
moccasins.

"Git to work," growled the guard, striking her roughly over the head.
"You got a man o' your own, so don't make eyes at them fellers!"

This kindly pleasantry drew a roar of applause from the others, and
after giving the prisoners a gourd of water each, the squaw retired,
still watching Norton.  A half-hour later the party had again taken
up its way.  Now, however, Red Hugh lay beside Norton on the wagon.

"I told that squaw to look at your moccasins," he whispered softly to
the latter.  "She looked to me like a Shawnee, though her husband was
a Delaware.  If she takes the hint and Tecumthe hears of this affair,
I feel sorry for these devils when the Shawnees avenge you."

"Nonsense," returned Norton, laughing harshly.  "You're away off the
track, Hugh.  Tecumthe will never bother his head over me, even if he
hears of it.  Our only hope is that Audubon or Ayres will get after
us in alarm with the Regulators, and will trace us."

"They won't trace this gang," returned the other.  "Two of 'em are
wiping out the tracks after us."

Neither of them said more, Norton relapsing into a troubled doze.
Just as evening was drawing on, they came to the journey's end.  And
at last Norton found himself in the headquarters of the gang.

It was a settlement rather than a cache, consisting of a little
cluster of buildings.  Two of these were large sleeping cabins for
the men, where a few slatternly women appeared at the doors with loud
ribaldry.  Another was a large kitchen and dining-room, with a
lean-to where dwelt Grigg and his daughter.  Norton felt his heart
ache for the helpless girl.

Behind all, at the edge of a small stream which passed beyond the
settlement, was a long low building where the stolen goods were
stored, as it appeared.  Besides these, there were two outlying
shacks where some of the men lived with Indian wives or worse;
farther downstream was a corn-patch, with signs of cleared ground
beyond, along the banks of the stream.

The whole place was doubtless a year or two old, and bespoke thorough
organization.  Duval, who now seemed quite at home and absolutely in
authority, was beyond doubt the organizer, for he seemed to rule the
place with an iron hand.  Norton and Red Hugh were carried into the
big store-barn and left, unguarded but bound.  The men at once fell
to work fetching in the goods brought by cart, adding them to the
quantities already laid up in the cache.

Norton was wondering what had become of Kitty Grigg, when, through
the open doorway of the barn-like building, where barrels and casks
and sacks were piled high around the walls and floor, came a dim
shape against the dusk outside.

"Mr. Norton!" sounded the girl's voice, softly.

"Over here, Kitty," returned Norton cheerfully, and a moment later
she was kneeling beside him, sobbing.

"Oh, what has happened?" she asked, grief-smitten.  "Duval is in
Abel's room, and they're talking about me!  I'm afraid--I don't know
what they're planning to do, and it seems----"

"Have you been harmed, girl?" asked Red Hugh, and his voice was grim.

"No--but--Duval has sent for a circuit-rider from Vincennes, and
means to marry me--soon----"

Norton perceived that all barriers were down between them, and that
she no longer doubted concerning the identity of Abel Grigg with
Blacknose.  Quietly and without holding anything back, he told her of
the attack on the boat, and all which had preceded it.

This was no time for tears, and under the influence of his steady
grave voice the girl calmed herself.  Norton had taken her hand
between his own bound ones, and gradually left her regaining
steadiness and poise.

"Can you get a knife and free us to-night?" he asked suddenly.  "We
could take horses and get away----"

"No," she returned hopelessly.  "It would be no use.  Abel"--and
Norton noted that she no longer spoke of him as father--"Abel keeps
men on guard always, and he is usually on watch himself.  We have two
rooms in that lean-to behind the kitchen, and I cannot get out
without his knowing----"


Came the sound of steps and the glitter of light from the doorway
behind her.  With a low gasp of fright, the girl rose and fled to the
far end of the place, where she crouched behind some piled kegs.
Norton twisted about to see Grigg, Duval, and two men enter with
lanterns.

Setting down their lights, the four grouped themselves comfortably on
kegs around the two prisoners.  Norton noted without grief that his
fists had left the face of Duval badly marked, while the lawyer
stared down at his captive in savage hatred.  Red Hugh was completely
disregarded, but Norton was soon to find that the old man had been
taken alive for very definite reasons.

"Your race is done, Captain Norton," said Duval coldly.  "I presume
that you are now quite satisfied of your folly?  I hope to have a
very pretty scene for you to-morrow night, when Madam Grigg and I
will be united in holy matrimony--save the mark!"

The others joined in the laughter, as Duval kicked Norton roughly.
The Louisianian did not reply.

"Well, let's hear about it, Cap," spoke up one of the evil-eyed men
impatiently enough.  "The boys want to split the stuff and be off, so
if we're a-goin' to have any fun first----"

"You'll have your fun," broke in Duval easily.  "Look at Mr. Norton's
powder-horn and see if you recognize it."

The two leaned over Norton, pulling the red-streaked horn into view.
A curse broke from them, and one of them kicked Norton again.

"Tobin's!" burst out the man vengefully.  "Did the cuss git Tobin,
Cap?  That's why he ain't showed up?"

"Exactly"--and Duval smiled cruelly.  "Tell the other boys about it.
Now to-morrow the circuit-rider we sent Darby after last week will be
in from the north.  To-morrow night Miss Kitty and I will be married.
One of you go over to the Miami village and bring 'em all over for a
jamboree, squaws and all."

"We'll git the squaws all right," jeered one of the men.

"The next morning," continued Duval, "we'll divide the stuff and
separate.  Grigg, here, will take you and the bulk of the cache up to
Vincennes, where you can sell it and scatter--and do it fast!"

"How 'bout you?" queried one of the men.  Duval leered knowingly.

"My wife and I go to Detroit, and from there over the border.  This
country is too hot to hold me, boys, but you aren't known yet."

"Well, what about these two fellers?" demanded Grigg heavily, with a
black look down at Norton.  "Why not shoot 'em and have done?  I
don't aim to leave no spies to tell on me----"

"We'll have better fun than that"--and Duval held up a lantern.
"This fellow with the beard is Red Hugh, the Indian killer.
Understand?  After we've had our fun out of the Miamis, we'll give
them back some of their weapons and turn 'em loose on these two.
There'll be a show worth seeing, eh?"

A cold thrill ran over Norton, while the others broke into wild
applause of Duval's ingenuity.  The Louisianian knew well what was
intended.  Like other settlers along the border, this gang of Duval's
was accustomed to a certain form of "sport" at the expense of their
redskin neighbours.

This took the form of gathering the Indians, taking away their
weapons, and then plying them with whisky.  At the proper moment they
would be set to fighting, and the resultant encounter would often
last for hours, without great danger to the combatants, but with
intense amusement to the watchers.

Now, however, Duval had injected another element into it.  The name
of Red Hugh seemed well known, and even Norton could guess what would
happen when the drunken Miamis would be given their weapons and let
loose upon their deadly enemy.  It was a sure, amusing, and ingenious
scheme to get rid of the two prisoners.

The two men went out, laughing, and Duval turned on Grigg.

"I have the papers made out for your signature, and we'll throw the
fear of hell into that circuit-rider.  You're sure Darby will get the
right one--the loose-jawed, weak-mouthed one?  If he got that blasted
Quaker Dennis, we'd have a stiff time persuading him all was right.
The girl will kick."

"Darby's wise enough to get the right feller," rejoined Grigg.
"Whar's that five hundred ye promised me?"

"Here--come on outside."  Duval rose, with a clink of coins.  The two
left the place, taking their lanterns with them.


As the girl came stealing back to his side, Norton felt like rebuking
her for the feeling which had caused her to accompany Abel Grigg into
the woods; then shame struck him, and pity and love.  For a moment he
held her hand in silence; then she had pulled free and was gone,
sobbing.

"Curse those devils!" muttered Red Hugh thickly.

Norton echoed the words, and after that there was silence.

Slowly the night dragged away between dozing and the pain of their
bonds.  Shortly after daylight one of the slatternly women came with
food and water and fed them amid a stream of ribaldry and curses.
Norton was glad when at length she departed and left them alone.

A guard was stationed at the door, but no speech passed between the
two captives.  Red Hugh stared up unblinking at the beams above, a
wild ferocity gathered in his blood-stained face.  Toward noon there
was shouting and the thud of hoofs from outside, and Duval entered
hastily with Abel Grigg.  Norton rightly conjectured that the
circuit-rider had arrived.

"Give him that far cabin," ordered the lawyer hurriedly and in a low
voice.  "Keep him quiet in there and don't let him suspect anything
yet.  I'll visit him later.  He's a coward, from his face, and I'll
fix him up right."


At last that long day came to an end; as sunset darkened the
barn-like structure, the camp awoke into activity.  Hogsheads and
casks and sacks were piled to the roof at the far end, where half a
dozen whisky kegs were also set out, ready to be broached later.

Around the walls were hung lanterns, while the centre of the floor
was cleared for the fun.  Norton and Red Hugh, still fast bound, were
placed on a pile of sacks near the door, in partial obscurity.

From the scattered talk of the men Norton gathered that they intended
carrying off some of the prettiest of the Miami squaws after the
debauch; also, all seemed well with their projects and they were in
high fettle, for the Miamis had arrived.

An hour later the lanterns were lighted and the gang assembled.
Grigg brought in the angry and frightened Kitty, forcing her to a
place not far from the two prisoners, he himself standing beside her.
At sight of her white features, Norton tugged desperately but vainly
at his bonds, raging.

In all there were fourteen of the gang, and five women--most of them
already half-drunk and all of them brutish in the extreme.  The
circuit-rider did not put in an appearance.

Now the Miamis were brought in, men at the door relieving them of
their guns as they came, and Grigg shaking hands with the warriors in
turn.  Of these there were a score.  Norton was rather surprised to
find that the squaws, all enveloped in blankets from head to heel,
numbered nearly twice as many as the braves.  One or two of the gang
attempted familiarities, but these Duval rebuked with an iron fist.

They were squalid red men enough, were these Miami warriors;
liquor-sodden, shuffling, and debased in the extreme.  One alone
seemed of superior quality.  He was a tall figure, blanket-swathed to
the waist, who, after his handshake with Grigg, cast a swift glance
around and then stood immobile not far from Norton's recumbent
figure.  Kitty watched in evident ignorance of what was going on; she
was soon undeceived.

"Broach the kegs, boys!" shouted Duval suddenly, when the last of the
Miamis had entered.

With a yell of delight the men sprang forward.  In five minutes the
six kegs were surrounded by a grunting, struggling mass of Miamis,
the squaws standing to one side and eating strips of dried venison
which the raiders handed out freely.

Norton and Red Hugh lay side by side on the sacks.  Grigg stood with
Kitty, a few feet distant, and between them was the tall Indian, his
blanket drawn over his head.  Grigg urged him to drink, but he
refused with a guttural negation, meeting with no more importunity.
Indeed, the whites were drinking with as much abandon as the
warriors, save for Duval and Grigg alone.

A few moments later the warriors were shoved back from the kegs and
their knives and tomahawks removed to the pile of rifles beside the
door.  Then one of the gang stepped in and by dint of some rough
horse-play, highly amusing to his comrades, provoked two of the red
men into a rough and tumble fight.

Within five minutes the whole group of warriors was engaged in a
frenzied scuffle, amid roars of laughter from the watchers.  In their
drunken awkwardness they did little damage, and every eye watched
save that of Kitty; she had covered her face with her hands and stood
trembling.

"Give 'em more licker!" roared Grigg suddenly, and rushed across the
floor.

No sooner had he moved than the tall Indian took one swift step
toward Norton.  A knife flamed in his hand, and the startled
Louisianian contracted shrinkingly.

Then the knife had severed the cords at his ankles, and he looked
into the face of Tecumthe.

"Be quiet!" warned the chief in English.




CHAPTER XV

Norton lay in paralysed amazement while his wrists were freed, and
Tecumthe turned to Red Hugh.  The Indian, wasting no time on
questions, seemed quite conversant with the whole situation.

"Be ready," he whispered rapidly.  "Take the young woman from the
door when I strike!"

Red Hugh grunted, and Tecumthe once more assumed his negligent
attitude as Grigg returned across the floor.

Norton's wild surge of astonished delight soon passed.  The thick
moccasins had protected his ankles to some extent, but his hands were
for the moment useless, all circulation stopped by the tight thongs.

After all, Tecumthe could do little against this murderous gang by
himself.  How, then, did he intend to "strike"?  Did he have a band
of his warriors outside?

"It wasn't such a wild shot about those moccasins after all," came
Red Hugh's chuckling whisper.  "Looks like he's going to give us a
chance to slip away.  Work your arms a bit."

The Louisianian nodded, and very slowly perceived life creeping back
into his numbed hands.  Grigg and the rest were roaring at the antics
of the drunken, fighting Miamis; Duval, perched on a big hogshead at
the far end of the room, was inciting them to further efforts.

Locked in pairs, the warriors were striking, kicking, rolling over
the floor in a bestial encounter which left Norton shocked to the
core; he had heard of these affairs often but had never seen one
before.

Duval's men were plying them with liquor amid wild shouts of
encouragement, and were fast growing drunk themselves; so far,
however, they were too much interested in their amusements to bother
the squaws, who stood lined up against the farther wall and grouped
around the door.

Again Grigg's interest got the better of his prudence, and with a
bellow he leaped out to join in the horse-play.  Kitty, left alone,
shrank past the tall figure of Tecumthe toward Norton, who put out
his hand and gripped her arm.

"Quiet!" he said softly, as she turned with a startled exclamation.
"Be ready to make for the door, Kitty."

Wide-eyed, she stared into his face for a moment, and under cover of
her body Norton half rose to take the pistols which Tecumthe passed
him.  He put one into the hand of Red Hugh then waited.


There was not long to wait.  With a sudden movement, Tecumthe flung
the blanket from his splendid figure and stood forth in all the glory
of his half-naked bronze, unpainted.  His voice rang out like a
clarion:

"Peace, dogs!"

Some of the Miamis ceased their scuffling; others continued: one
startled oath passed around the line of white men as they saw him
step forward.  He made no pause, but raised a clenched fist.

"Dogs of white men!"  And his clear voice seemed to hold even Duval
transfixed.  "Outcasts from your own race!  Murderers!  Why do you
thus debase my red brethren, the Miamis?  I know you--who you are and
what you do in the Shawnee country.  I know your crimes.  I am going
to show my white brethren that Tecumthe can punish murderers better
than they!"

As the dread word _Tecumthe_ passed through the hall, Duval leaped to
his feet with a yell of warning.  It was too late.  The line of
squaws flung off their blankets and stepped forth as warriors in all
the glory of Shawnee war-paint, rifles in hand.  From outside came
one shrill war-whoop--and the interior of the building became an
inferno as the first rifles roared out.

Awful as the thing was, Norton had no pity for Duval's gang.  He
leaped up, seized Kitty, and with Red Hugh at his side made for the
doorway.  Here a Shawnee halted them with levelled rifle, but after a
look at Norton waved them on outside.

Kitty had fainted, mercifully.

The whole clearing seemed covered with yelling, whooping demons.  As
the three emerged, Norton saw that the kitchens had been fired, the
flames lighting up the whole scene.  An instant later, while Red Hugh
was taking the feet of the senseless girl, Tecumthe himself joined
them and led them across the clearing to one of the farther cabins.

Here, under guard of a stalwart warrior, who went leaping off at
sight of his chief, they found a trembling, terror-smitten
circuit-rider who was too frightened to do more than grovel before
the chief.  Tecumthe kicked him away, and Norton lowered Kitty's body
to the pallet in the corner.

Despite all he knew about this gang, despite their intentions, he
felt himself somewhat a traitor to his own race.  Red Hugh must have
felt much the same thing, for he was standing glaring at the chief,
his eyes terrible.

"It is not vengeance," said Tecumthe composedly, watching the low
building with gloomy eye.  "It is justice.  A squaw met my men; they
told me of one who wore my moccasins, in bonds.  I knew of these
white men, and I came in haste.  That is all."

"It's not all," cried Norton with sudden remembrance.  "There are
women in that place----"

"Right!" broke out Red Hugh.  "Tecumthe, we must have them, no matter
what manner of women they are!"

"Go," said the chief, nodding.  "My men have seen your faces and you
are safe."

Norton sprang out on the word, and the two men ran side by side to
the building.  At the doorway, the scene within was horrible; the
place was filled with powder-smoke, one corner was afire from a burst
lantern, and from the door were pouring drunken Miamis, some of them
still fighting together.

And through the fire and smoke white men and red were battling like
madmen, with axe and knife and pistol and clubbed rifle.  Norton well
knew the danger he was in from both sides, but shoving through the
crowded mass of Miamis he dashed within, Red Hugh at his heels.

In one corner were crouching the five terrified women, and as the
Louisianian fought his way through the struggling, yelling groups, he
saw a tall Shawnee tomahawk one of the drabbled figures.

With a yell of fury, he raised his pistol and fired; the warrior
sprang high in his death agony, and before he fell Norton was
stripping him of knife and tomahawk.  Then he turned, and with Red
Hugh tried to get the four remaining women to the door.

They were terror-stricken, hysterical creatures, mad with fear and
liquor and obscenity, but they were women.  As Norton fought his way
across the floor, he caught glimpses through the smoke of the combat
which raged around him--glimpses which remained etched on his memory
for ever.

Grigg, with a huge axe, was standing back to back with Duval,
fighting a way across the place amid a surging wave of the redmen.  A
drunken, trampled Miami was striking right and left with a knife;
screams and oaths and prayers rose high as the Shawnee steel bit
deep, while over all shrilled the dread war-whoop, keen and terrible.

"God!" breathed Norton.  "It's not a fight, but a massacre!"

How they did it he never knew, but between them, he and Red Hugh
managed to get the shrieking women to the door and outside.  The
scene at the door was wild; pirates and Shawnees and drunken Miamis
were all mingled in a horrible-struggling mass, trampling dead and
wounded indiscriminately.  And behind them all, the fire had seized
on the whisky kegs and was climbing high through the whole building.

Norton breathed a prayer of thanks that Kitty Grigg knew nothing of
what was going on; by dint of ceaseless efforts he got the four women
to the shack, at the door of which still stood Tecumthe.  Driving
them inside, where Kitty lay motionless on the pallet, he jerked the
weak-mouthed circuit-rider to his feet.

"Look after them, you," he snarled, and rejoined the chief and Red
Hugh outside.


Forth from the long barn, whose farther end was now all aflame, was
pouring a rout of men, white and red intermixed, battling to the
death.  One of the rivermen started across the clearing, but a dozen
bullets from the watching warriors caught him; the place seemed to
vomit death and destruction.  With a dark look Tecumthe, who had
himself struck no blow, turned to Red Hugh.

"Bear witness, Captain Moore," he said sternly, "that we take neither
scalps nor plunder!  We make no war upon white men, but upon
murderers----"

"Moore?" cried Norton suddenly.  He caught Red Hugh by the arm and
swung him around.  "Is that your name--Hugh Moore?  You're not the
Captain Moore who left Cincinnati with my father----"

"God in heaven!" broke out Red Hugh hoarsely, gripping him and
staring into his eyes.  "Are you Charles Norton's son--_look out_!"

With a sudden movement, Norton was flung a dozen feet away.

Whether they had broken through the cordon of Indians or had escaped
from some rear entrance of the burning building, Norton never found
out; but Grigg and Duval, axe and tomahawk in hand, were leaping
across the clearing, a string of Shawnees behind them.

Red Hugh's action was all that saved Norton from Duval's tomahawk,
which sang over his head and thudded into the building behind him.
Duval himself followed it instantly, and gripped Norton as he was
rising; while Grigg swung his axe at Norton from the side, to be
grappled and flung back by Red Hugh.

Norton saw Tecumthe motion his warriors back, and then saw no more,
for he was fighting with a madman.  Duval seemed crazed, as he might
well be; Norton had whipped out his knife, but had no chance to use
the weapon, for the other had gripped his wrists and was throwing all
his iron strength into the desperate struggle.

All four of the fighting men crashed together and went down in a
confused mass.  The shock broke Duval's hold, and as they came up
Norton drove with his knife.  He felt the steel bite, but still Duval
fought on, flinging himself forward bodily and bearing Norton down
again.

Meantime, Grigg and Red Hugh were engaged in a mighty struggle,
strength against strength, giant against giant.  Reeling over the
turf, the four men again came together in mad collision; as they did
so, Norton sent his knife home for the second time, and now Duval
fell away from him.

Barely had he done so when Red Hugh's pistol crashed out.  Grigg had
taken warning, and ducked, flinging his arms about Moore's waist.
Directly behind him was Norton, and as the shot flamed out, the
Louisianian flung his arms wide and toppled over the body of Duval.

Then, for the first time, Tecumthe leaped forward.  Frenzied by what
he had done, Red Hugh had beaten Grigg back with the pistol-butt, and
Grigg flashed out his tomahawk to throw.  Before his arm came up,
Tecumthe had sprung between them like a thing of steel; his own knife
flamed in the lurid glare, and Grigg collapsed.

Red Hugh stood for a moment, pistol in hand.  There was a look of
awful grief on his face, and without a word he knelt over Norton.

For a moment he felt the heart of the Louisianian, fumbled under the
latter's shirt, and then held up a small gold eagle.

"Good God," he muttered slowly, as he held the eagle up to the lurid
light of the burning buildings.  "What's this?  What----"

For he had turned over the pin, and had read the letters graven on
its under side.  Slowly he tottered up, then looked at the
uncomprehending Tecumthe, a terrible horror in his eyes.

"Hugh Edward Moore--my own pin--I've killed him----"

And then, with a terrible cry, he fell upon Norton's body.




CHAPTER XVI

Norton awoke, with the strange and persistent idea that the face of
Audubon was bending over him.  It was nonsense, of course; he turned
his head, and saw that he lay quite alone, opposite a doorway.  The
sun was warm and bright outside.

What of that horrible nightmare, that hell of death and madmen, of
which he had dreamed?  The very remembrance brought out the cold
sweat on his brow; he lifted his hand and found his head bandaged.

Yet, looking out that doorway, he slowly recalled what had happened
on that night of horror, for he was gazing across the clearing where
it had taken place.  There was no doubt of it; a hundred yards away
were the ruins of the burned building, the cache-barn; he himself,
then, must be lying in that shack to which he had brought the women?

The place seemed deserted, however.  There were no Indians in sight;
no bodies strewed the clearing; everyone seemed to have vanished and
left him alone in desolation.  No--he was mistaken after all; a voice
strangely like that of Audubon lifted faintly to him.

"--so do you see how he is, sir.  I must look to the litter."

"Good heavens, am I mad?" thought Norton.  He strained to sit up, but
found himself too weak.  An instant later a tall, stooping figure
darkened the doorway and came to his side with a cry of joy.

For a moment Norton shrank away, not recognizing the man who had come
to his knees beside the pallet.  Yet--it must be!  The shaggy hair
was trimmed, the shaggy matted beard was gone; but from the heavily
lined face, the deep-set eyes of Red Hugh were looking at him.

"Man--man--we thought you never would come round!"  And Red Hugh
clasped his hand in a warm pressure.

"By gad, what has happened to you?"  Norton essayed a feeble smile of
wonder.  Then like a stab memory came back to him; this was no other
than Captain Hugh Moore, the same who had been his own father's
friend and brother-officer!

"Quiet!" commanded Moore sharply, as Norton struggled to sit up in
his high excitement.

"Tell me quickly--are you the same Moore----"

"Yes, lad, the same."  Moore forced him back on the pallet, yet with
tender hands.  "Oh, lad, had I but known before!  Why on earth did
you not tell me your story, tell me----"

"How should I know who you were?"

"True"--and the other nodded, his stern face very sad.  "You said you
came from New Orleans, too; I never dreamed of the truth until I had
heard the tale from Kitty and Mr. Audubon----"

"For God's sake, tell me what has happened!" broke out Norton, unable
to stand the suspense longer.  "Is Audubon here?"

"Yes, Audubon came two days ago, bringing the Regulators----"

"How long have I been here?"

"It is three days since--since I shot you with my own hand," returned
the other bitterly.  "Oh lad, when I owe everything in the world to
you, to think that I myself----"

"Tush, you owe me nothing," interrupted Norton, bewildered.  "Then
the Regulators followed us after all?"

"Yes.  Audubon met them at Henderson, read the forged note, and
followed us in another boat.  He was too late.  They found
Brookfield's craft burned to the edge and at length picked up the
trail and came on.  Tecumthe and his warriors had already
departed--but let me show you something."

While Moore was still fumbling in his pocket, Audubon stepped into
the shack.  He gripped Norton's hand, and the two friends looked at
each other for a moment, until Norton got out a low word.

"Thanks, my friend!  I hoped you would come----"

"We did nothing," smiled Audubon gravely.  "The work was done, and we
could but bury the dead and care for the living.  If he is able to be
moved, Captain Moore, we had best start soon that we may reach the
river by evening.  The litter is ready."

Moore bent his head in a gesture of assent.

"Very well, bring the litter here to the door and we will start.
Waken Kitty."

"Yes," added Norton eagerly.  "Is she well?"

"Quite," laughed Audubon, and stepped from the door.  "She has been
nursing you."

With his departure, Moore stooped and placed something in Norton's
hand.  The Louisianian gazed at it with a thrill of remembrance.  It
was the golden eagle belonging to Kitty.

"Eh?"  He looked up sharply.  "Where got you this----"

"From your shirt, lad.  Why, Norton--don't you see?"

"See?" repeated Norton, amazed.  "What mean you?"

With a great laugh Red Hugh plunged to his knees and caught Norton's
hand; the man seemed transformed with some mad joy too great for
words.  Half in fear, Norton drew back, and at this Moore only
laughed out again.

"Oh, blind, blind!" he cried ringingly.  "And you knew that Kitty had
been found among Indians, that this pin was hers--yet you never
suspected it!"




CHAPTER XVII

Two riders were walking their horses along the Beargrass Creek Road,
on the way to Colonel Taylor's farm.  They drew rein at a bend, just
beyond which was a fringe of trees and a dried mudhole.

"I brought you to this road for a purpose, Kitty," said Norton
gravely.  "Do you remember the spot?"

She looked at him and nodded, and her look sent a little flame of
happiness dancing into his brown eyes.  He swung out of the saddle,
and she slipped down into his arms, the movement loosing her red-gold
hair until it flooded down about his hands.

"Oh, Kitty--Kitty!"

He looked into her eyes and could say no more for a moment.  So they
stood together, gazing each at the other, while the two horses moved
away and began to crop the grass, unheeded.

Then Norton drew away from her, freed his hands, and soberly
unclasped a golden eagle from his coat.  He looked at it, then held
it to her.

"Kitty--sweet Kitty--I brought you here away from your father and our
friends, here where we first met--there is something I must tell
you----"

He faltered, and with a quick laugh she flung back her hair.

"Mr. Norton"--and there was mimicry in her voice--"I--I too have
something to tell you!"

"Yes?" he said gravely, stiffening a little.  "Yes?"

"Nay, but I would not take precedence of a soldier, sir!"

And she made him a laughing curtsy, perhaps to hide the great glory
of womanhood that shone in her face.

"Then, my news is this," said Norton, lifting a tress of her hair to
his lips.  "A regiment of riflemen from Kentucky has been formed;
trouble is brewing with England; There is trouble on the frontier.  I
have been offered the command of this regiment, Kitty.  I ask
you--will you take this emblem of all that is dearest to me, and take
with it the heart of John Norton?  A soldier's life and pay is not
much to share----"

"Soldiers do not serve for pay," she said very steadily, and put her
hand upon his, clutching the golden eagle of the Cincinnati between
them.  "Nor do women serve that they may share--oh, my dear!  You
have not yet told me the dearest thing of all----"

And so they told each other.



THE END



  PRINTED BY FISHER, KNIGHT AND CO., LTD.,
  GAINSBOROUGH PRESS, ST. ALBANS, AND HEATH PRESS, HARPENDEN







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WILDERNESS TRAIL ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
